Aly Oueryemmi presides over ES Zarzis, who were recently relegated from the country's top flight amidst controversial scenes. Zarzis' 1-1 draw with ES Hammam Sousse, which was enough to relegate rival side ES Metlaoui, ended in five-year bans for two Zarzis players while creating another storm in Tunisian football. "Corruption is eating away at Tunisian football," Oueryemmi told BBC Sport Africa. "There is no fair play nor equal opportunity in Tunisian football - either when it comes to referee or match assignments. There are certain referees that are assigned to manipulate matches. There are unjust referees and controversial results. "Results in Tunisian football have never been honest and truthful." BBC Sport Africa has sought comment from the Tunisian Football Federation (FTF), which is responsible for assigning referees to matches, but has not received a response. The relegation of Zarzis, who Oueryemmi describes as a "victim" of corruption within Tunisian football, came after a four-team play-off to determine which two sides would stay in the top division. The series proved so controversial that the FTF has since ordered another game to be played. The match is scheduled to take place on Wednesday, although one of the teams supposed to participate has previously said it will not play. "Let him score! Let him score!" These were the shouts heard in a video widely circulated on Tunisian social media during the relegation match between Zarzis and Hammam Sousse in late May. To give context to the events, the relegation from Tunisia Ligue 1 was to be determined after a mini-tournament featuring Zarzis, Hammam Sousse as well as ES Metlaoui and Olympique de Beja. Deep into stoppage time on the final day of the round-robin league on May 29, with all four teams in action, Metlaoui and Olympique de Beja - who had just drawn - were safe since Hammam Sousse were trailing 1-0 at Zarzis. But with 100 minutes on the clock, everything changed as Sousse found an equaliser after Mossaab Sassi was given the freedom of the penalty area to dribble forward and fire home without a challenge against him. With the new twist, Olympique de Beja and Hammam Sousse would remain in Ligue 1, while ES Metlaoui would be relegated to Ligue 2 alongside ES Zarzis. The shouts of "let him score" are believed to be from Zarzis fans after they said they had been mistreated in their game against Hammam Sousse just three days earlier. As the video spread throughout Tunisian social media, ES Metlaoui fans were outraged and accused ES Zarzis of intentionally forfeiting the match to favour Hammam Sousse. Riots broke out in the south-west town of Metlaoui, where workers halted phosphate production in one of the country's biggest factories and the local labour union spoke out about "rising tensions within the city that were threatening local peace". "We're talking about a scandal match-fixing and this isn't only about the teams. This is a corrupt system," Mohamed Dinary, the Metlaoui president, told a local radio station shortly afterwards. The day after the game, the FTF stated that it had "written to FIFA's ethics and disciplinary committees about the events that unfolded during the game ... asking their support to investigate the matter and take proper action". FTF has also called on the match referees and officials to give their reports on what went on. "The FTF statement is a joke, the match was a joke, and the result was a joke," added Dinary. --BBC-