At the time of going to print, Botswana had accumulated five medals, two gold medals, two silver and one bronze. The team snatched the first gold medals through the mixed relay team. The relay team comprising of Collen Kebinatshipi, Motlatsi Ranthe, Keitumetse Maitseo and Christine Botlogetswe clocked 3.21.85. Thalosang Tshireletso added his gold medal to the bag in the men’s long jump grabbing an impressive 7.82m to become Africa champion. Tshireletso was on his element in the men’s triple jump registering 16.77m to win a silver medal. Tshepiso Masalela won a bronze medal for Botswana in the men’s 800m stopping the clock at 1:45.65. Bayapo Ndori continued his brilliance on the track clocking 45.35 to bag a silver medal in the men’s 400m. His teammates who were also in the final, Leungo Scotch and Zibani Ngozi finished in position five (46.14) and seven (46.56). It was a tough day in the office for Lydia Jele as she completed the women’s 400m final with a time of 53.58 to claim position six. In another incident, the 4x100m relay team was disqualified (DQ). The team comprised of Stephen Abosi, Letsile Tebogo, Jayson Mandoze and Tumo Leserere. The team had registered a time of 39.32 to qualify for the relay finals. The women’s 4 x100m relay team that was made up of Winnie Sarefo, Loungo Matlhaku, Tshepang Manyika and Boitshepiso Kelapile finished in position five with a time of the 45.93. The national team coach, Justice Dipeba said he was impressed with the performance of the team. “I believe the team is doing fine...We have already won five medals as of yesterday (Saturday), and we do have four finals today and we are standing a very good chance to increase our medal tally,” he said. Dipeba said there are areas where they have hit hard as the results were not what we anticipated, but that is competition. “Sometimes you will get bad days where things do go your way. For example, our short relays; men got a DQ. In the women’s team, we lost two of our strongest runners due injury and sickness,” he added. Dipeba said they expected two medals in the 400m men, but we only got one. “But all in all it is well and we are happy for our young team,” Dipeba said.
www-mmegi.bw--