The head of the organisation, Jan Egeland, says that suffering in African would, in his words, be pushed further into the shadows by the all-absorbing war in Ukraine. It is reportedly the first time that all ten countries on the Council's list of most-neglected refugee crises are on the African continent. They include the Democratic Republic of Congo, Burkina Faso, South Sudan and Ethiopia. The Council's assessment is based on shortfalls in the international political response, media coverage, and aid pledged. The ranking for 2021 "testifies to the chronic failure of decision-makers, donors and the media to address the conflicts and human suffering on this continent", lamented the Secretary-General of the Non-Governmental Organisation, Jan Egeland, quoted in a communicated. While a large proportion of African countries are usually included (8 out of 10 in 2020), 2021 is the first year that "all ten are in Africa", according to the report. In West Africa, Burkina Faso, which now has more than 1.75 million displaced people, particularly in the north of the country plagued by jihadist attacks, comes in 2nd position, ahead of Cameroon, South Sudan, Chad, Mali, Sudan, Nigeria, Burundi and Ethiopia. Like the previous year, the DRC, "a textbook case of neglect, appearing in this list for the sixth time in a row", underlines the NRC, comes first, with 5.5 million displaced people, particularly in the northeast of the country. "This is one of the worst humanitarian crises of this century, and yet those inside and outside Africa who have the power to change this are turning a blind eye to the waves of brutal and targeted attacks against civilians that shatter communities,” according to the NRC. Hunger is on the rise in most of these countries, due in particular to the worsening of their food situation "by the increase in the prices of wheat and fuel caused by the war in Ukraine", warns the NRC. "In addition, several donor countries are deciding or considering reducing their aid to Africa to redirect funds to Ukraine and the reception of refugees in their country," he said. -AfricaNews--