Bench Marks Foundation, Corruption Watch and South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), supported the calls from civil rights groups in countries where bribes took place to conduct further probes into Glencore. The Anglo-Swiss multinational commodity trading and mining company this month admitted to paying more than $100 million in bribes to officials in Brazil, Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Equatorial Guinea, Nigeria, South Sudan and Venezuela between 2007 and 2018. On Friday, the Bench Marks Foundation, which has conducted investigations on Glencore on pollution in some African countries, said there needed to be an investigation into Glencore in Africa, particularly in South Africa. It said it was not surprised by the latest allegations that had come out regarding corruption of Glencore and its officials. In an interview, Bench Marks Chief Researcher David van Wyk said: “In the past, we pointed out direct incidents of very problematic allegations that are now proven in the United States, which happened in the Democratic Republic of Congo. We have been saying this since 2010, and now it's come out.”  Van Wyk said Glencore and South Africa had a long history and that warrants an investigation on its South African dealings. “We suspect that Glencore was involved in bribes in South Africa, but worse we suspect that it and other companies are involved in tax haven fraud. “These companies are registered in tax havens like Zurich in Switzerland or Cayman Islands. They mine the minerals here and sell them below global prices to themselves in those countries and then sell them at high global prices, that way they avoid paying tax here,” he said. Van Wyk said an investigation of Glencore in South Africa would depend on the upcoming ruling African National Congress conference, as the company has ties to the ruling political party. Last week, Glencore Chief Executive Gary Nagle acknowledged the misconduct identified in these probes and said the company had co-operated with the authorities, while cleaning up its ethics. --BUSINESS REPORT-- 