She is Mitwa Kaemba Ng'ambi, Chief Executive Officer(CEO), MTN Rwanda. Leadership is not a technical skill! Rather, it is considered a soft skill that brings together many human and managerial qualities. A good business leader is a person with charisma, a high level of emotional intelligence, strong self-confidence and a sense of listening, among others. Kaemba is all this and more. Female leadership influences business performance. Indeed, business performance depends on organizational performance. Therefore, beyond greater diversity for reasons of social equity in management functions, companies have an interest in broadening the range of behaviours of their leaders to strengthen all the dimensions of organizational performance, hence the importance of taking women's leadership into account. If we have to be technical about it, it has been shown that out of nine behaviours of good leadership, women practice five compared to four for men. Interested in the diversity of cultures, Kaemba has lived and worked in various countries, including Finland, Denmark, Namibia, Benin and Zambia, where she is originally from. Through her leadership journey, she has taken a keen interest in people development and coaching, activities in which she is involved in, in and out of the workplace. Prior to her appointment, she had been CEO of AirtelTigo Ghana since June 25, 2018. MTN Group has described Kaemba Ng’ambi as a seasoned leader with a strong business and technology background and unique experience in mergers and acquisitions in the telecommunications industry. The Zambian national is a software engineer by training and has worked with some of Africa's biggest telecom operators in various roles in Benin, Senegal, Zambia and Ghana before landing the role of CEO for MTN in Rwanda. In the making for several months since taking up her role as CEO of MTN Rwanda, Kaemba spearheaded the separation of the telecom and financial activities of MTN Rwanda, Agence Ecofin. It paves the way for the company to develop new products adapted to new uses. The future is brighter when women are present at the negotiating table where decisions are made. Trailblazing women like Kaemba have claimed their place and demanded inclusion and equality for women throughout history, and now it's up to us to do so. In all sectors, communities and societies, women have important leadership contributions to make. From politics and business to sports and STEM, diverse leadership benefits everyone. Leaders must represent the people they serve in order to better understand their wants and needs.  --Sifiso Hlope/Channel Africa-- 