Former Ghana striker Prince Tagoe believes ex-AC Milan and Inter Milan midfielder Sulley Muntari will make a strong addition to the Black Stars for their 2022 World Cup qualifying play-off against Nigeria later this month. The 37-year-old, who has become the toast of local fans after recently joining Ghana Premier League side Hearts of Oak, has been away from the international scene since his indefinite suspension for physically assaulting a team official during the 2018 World Cup in Brazil. Real's Remontada! Benzema hits hat-trick as Madrid emulate Barcelona by stunning PSG with comeback win Interim Ghana coach Otto Addo is set to imminently announce his squad for the March 25 and 29 double-header. “Every coach has his strategy, but I don’t know that of Otto Addo, if I were to be the coach of the Black Stars, I will just keep Sulley Muntari in the team for a certain reason,” Tagoe told Angel FM. “Maybe, there might be some difficulties in the course of the game where Muntari’s services will be needed. “I believe in him and know what he can do. Inviting Muntari back into the Black Stars goes beyond footballing reasons.” At the World Cup, Muntari, alongside Kevin-Prince Boateng, was sent away from camp on the morning of Ghana’s final group game against Portugal. The Black Stars ultimately suffered a 2-1 loss to the Europeans, finishing bottom of their group and exiting the tournament in the first round, their first time failing to make it to the knockout stage of the competition. According to the Ghana Football Association at the time, only an official apology, which Muntari ultimately rendered two years later, would make him eligible for a recall for national duty. Back home, a presidential Committee of Enquiry set up to investigate the West Africans’ poor World Cup performance, pronounced that the ex-Portsmouth man should never be recalled to the Black Stars. The winners of the two-legged tie between Ghana and familiar rivals Nigeria will secure qualification for the World Cup in Qatar later this year. Egypt announces the country is to diversify its sources of wheat Egypt's Prime Minister announced the country is to diversify its sources of wheat to avoid relying on what he described as "specific sources" for this product. The Minister added that the country would be using its strategic reserves until the end of 2022. The announcement followed a ban on the export of wheat and other food staples announced by Ukraine. "I assure all Egyptians that we won't have any crisis at all or be compelled to buy from the international market until the end of this year. I am talking about the citizens' basic needs concerning the bread loaf, we as the Egyptian state won't be pressured at all to buy any shipments under the current price surges as we will have a stock that will cover our needs until the end of 2022", said the Egyptian Prime Minister Mustafa Madbouly. Egypt relies on Russia and Ukraine for the supply of wheat that is turned into bread, noodles and animal feed. "It is true that Russia and Ukraine were our main source of wheat but we have already started to diversify our sources of wheat for imports in future deals, and that is already applied. We already buy (wheat) from various other countries. So we are always securing the diversity of our wheat sources so that they are not limited to specific countries", promised the prime minister. Millions in Egypt rely on subsidized bread made with Ukrainian wheat. Sharp spikes in the cost of wheat could severely affect Egypt's ability to keep bread prices at their current subsidised level. -AllAfrica--