The much-anticipated report paints a picture of how the ANC and its deployees in government departments were heavily compromised by Bosasa. The report recommends that ANC leaders and government officials, including former Gauteng Premier and Water and Environmental Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane, former President Jacob Zuma and his confidant Dudu Myeni, senior Parliamentarian Cedric Frolick, Deputy Defence Minister Thabang Makwetla and ANC Chairperson and Energy Minister, Gwede Mantashe. According to the report, Zuma benefitted through having lavish birthday parties sponsored by the company as well as alleged payments to the Jacob Zuma Foundation. The report notes that the system of bribery was so elaborate that to avoid suspicion, the team travelled in unmarked vehicles and worked in plain clothes. Care was taken to file the serial numbers off all material used. All cover was blown by the testimony of Bosasa’s former Chief Operations Officer, Angelo Agrizzi, who Zondo recalls told the commission that, indirectly, the state paid for the scheme, because the company claimed tax deductions for the work. The report notes that Mokonyane only conceded that she had a 40th birthday party at a guesthouse pinpointed by Agrizzi, after the owner of the guest house backed up his testimony, but maintained that she did not know Bosasa paid for the lavish event. It then turns to his testimony that she received a monthly stipend of R50 000 ($3 262.91) from Bosasa. The commission mulls in the report whether the evidence regarding upgrades by Bosasa to three homes owned by Mantashe, he insisted that he did not see anything wrong with accepting the gift  could fall outside its terms of reference because he was not a public office bearer at the time, but was the Secretary General of the ANC. It concludes that it did not, if this was in fact done to influence people in positions of state via Mantashe. Nor does the inquiry fall at the second hurdle, because the terms of reference do not demand that the people earmarked to be influenced in the process be identified. The commission says, however, that if it seemed plain that Bosasa and the middleman, through whom Mantashe received the benefits, behaved in a corrupt manner this does not “automatically translate into guilty conduct or knowledge on the part of Mantashe”. Political analyst, Professor Dirk Kotze, spoke to Khumbelo Mundzelele to unpack this... --ChannelAfrica/mg.co.za--