Even prior to the resolution being passed at the UN last week, talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials had already started. SA expected that the UN resolution would foremost welcome the commencement of dialogue between the parties and seek to create the conditions for these talks to succeed. Instead, the call for peaceful resolution through political dialogue is relegated to a single sentence close to the conclusion of the final text. This does not provide the encouragement and international backing that the parties need to continue with their efforts. Calling for peaceful negotiation is aligned with values upon which the UN was founded. SA is particularly concerned that the UN Security Council was unable to discharge its responsibility to maintain peace and security. This gives impetus to the long standing calls for the Security Council’s reform to meet the challenges of the 21st century. The UN Charter enjoins member states to settle their disputes by peaceful means in the first instance, stating explicitly that parties to any dispute should first seek a solution by negotiation, enquiry, mediation, conciliation, arbitration and similar mechanisms. Since the outbreak of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, South Africa’s position has been to affirm this call. “There have been some who have said that in abstaining from the vote condemning Russia’s military operation in Ukraine, South Africa has placed itself on the wrong side of history. “Yet, South Africa is firmly on the side of peace at a time when another war is something the world does not need, nor can it afford. The results of  these hostilities will be felt globally and for many years to come “Ramaphosa said. A cessation of hostilities may indeed be achieved through force of arms or economic pressure, but it would be unlikely to lead to a sustainable and lasting peace. The historical tensions between Russia and Ukraine make it all the more important that whatever agreements are brokered are sustainable in the long run and address the concerns of both parties to the conflict. The first is that even the most seemingly intractable differences can be resolved at the negotiating table. The second is that even as talks may collapse, they can and do resume, as was the case in SA’s own negotiating process. And that even when it seems the parties cannot see eye to eye, breakthroughs can and do happen. That SA will continue to support the call for negotiation and dialogue does not render our commitment to human rights any less. Since the outbreak of the conflict we have expressed our concern at the impact of the conflict on civilians believing that war is not the solution to conflict and that it leads to human suffering. Ramaphosa further says that “SA is committed to advancing the human rights and fundamental freedoms not only of our own people, but for the peoples of Palestine, Western Sahara, Afghanistan, Syria and across Africa and the world. It is our hope that negotiations between Russia and Ukraine yield positive outcomes that pave the way for an end to the conflict.” Even though the pace of negotiations may proceed slowly, there is progress nonetheless. Every effort of the international community should be oriented towards supporting these talks, and to bringing the two sides together. He says SA is greatly encouraged by the words of the UN Secretary-General António Guterres who said last week he would do everything in his power to contribute to an immediate cessation of hostilities and urgent negotiations for peace. The President further says that SA is therefore calling upon Russia and Ukraine to subject this conflict to mediation and do everything in their power to reach an agreement that will lead to the cessation of hostilities. --ChannelAfrica--