The first agreement valued at $15 million will enable the Addis Ababa city government to purchase 110 buses from China’s leading bus maker, Yutong, within eight months. The city will also integrate digital systems in its public bus transport system among other upgrades at a cost of $14.17 million, according to details in the second agreement. The pact was signed between the Addis Ababa city administration and Chinese Hisense TransTech Co., Ltd. The Ethiopian government is investing in the transport and logistics sector with a view to maintaining the country's economic growth trajectory. In a 10-year transport sector development plan for the construction of road and rail projects, the country hopes to build up to 1600 kilometres of roads up from the current 301 kilometres, Road Infrastructure Planning Team Head at the Ethiopian Road Fund, Sadiya Beshir said. Some of the expressways so far built in the country include the Addis Ababa - Adama, Modjo - Hawassa, and Dere Dawa -Dewele. "The government of Ethiopia has planned to increase the total length of the express highways in the country to 1600 kilometres over the coming ten years with a view to expediting the economic and social development of the nation as well as encouraging regional integration," she said. The plan emanates from Ethiopia’s grand vision of 2030, which aspires to make the nation one of the symbols of prosperity in Africa, Sadiya said. Meanwhile, Ethiopia's Foreign Affairs State Minister Redwan Hussien and Assistant Foreign Minister of China Deng Li held the second Ethiopia-China political consultation via teleconference on Wednesday. The two sides exchanged views on bilateral, regional, and multilateral issues of common concern, further pledging to strengthen their Comprehensive Strategic Cooperative Partnership," the state-run Ethiopian News Agency (RNA) reported. The two officials said discussions on the Addis Ababa Riverside and Road Projects, including operation and maintenance of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway, among others, was a manifestation of commitments of the Ethiopian and Chinese governments to promote practical cooperation between the two countries. --TheEastAfrican-- 