This innovative architect lives between Berlin, where he created an agency “Kéré Architecture” with eight collaborators, and Africa, his home, where he develops most of his projects. When we talk about African architecture, special attention should be paid to the myth of the uniformity of African culture. A tendency to view the continent as a single cultural territory fails in the face of the observation of the rich diversity of its cultures. Africa is a continent of 54 nations, thousands of ethnic groups, nearly 1.4 billion people. Its more than 2000 languages are only one aspect exposing its multiformity. The continent has witnessed the rise and fall of empires, political wars and religious conflicts, colonization and identity claims. Kéré is a renowned academic in several schools of architecture. A lecturer at his alma mater, he taught at the University of Wisconsin in Milwaukee. In 2012, he accepted a professorship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. The following year, he joined the faculty of the Academy of Architecture in Mendrisio, Switzerland. In 2017, he took over the chair of “Architectural Design and Participation” at the Technical University of Munich. More recently, he became a visiting professor at the Bauhaus University in Weimar. Kéré’s work has been exhibited at MoMA in New York. He is also fluent in French, English and German. Keen to contribute to the development of his native village despite the distance, in 1998 Kéré created the association "Bricks for the school of Gando" ("Schulbausteine für Gando") with the aim of financing the construction of a prestigious academic institution. Built in 2001 by the inhabitants of Gando, the project sought to combine the knowledge that Diébédo Francis Kéré acquired in Europe with the traditional construction methods of Burkina Faso. At the same time, he finished his studies in architecture at the Technical University of Berlin and opened his own office, Kéré Architecture. The Gando School was his graduation project with which, in 2004, he earned his diploma as well as the Aga Khan Prize for Architecture. To meet the new demand for students in Gando, Diébédo Francis Kéré designed an extension for the school comprising four additional classrooms, a school kitchen, a library and a football field, completed in the following year. Housing for the teachers was also built on the premises of the school. In the village, he wanted the villagers to be part of the project: he had to explain that he was going to use the land but by improving it with 10% cement and compressing the bricks. The biggest challenge was how to explain the design and drawings to people who can't read or write. The architect faces this challenge in all his projects in Burkina Faso. In all the projects undertaken, he takes care to work with local teams to whom he provides professional training. In 2010, Kéré finished the construction of the Center for earthen architecture in Mopti, in the north of Mali. That year, he also completed the project to renovate the Bamako National Park on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of Mali's independence. He is one of the rare architects of African origin to build an international reputation thanks to reinvented traditional techniques. For more than 20 years, he has been involved in numerous projects in Africa. In Benin, he realizes what he believes to be one of the most important projects of his career: the new Parliament of Porto-Novo. Since winning the Aga Khan Award for Architecture in 2004, Diébédo Francis Kéré has continued to receive awards including the Global Award for Sustainable Architecture (Global Award Community) and gold at the Global Holcim Awards, LafargeHolcim. Sifiso Hlope / Channel Africa