Early attacks in 2017 were carried out using a combination of machetes widely available for agricultural use in the region and locally available firearms. The first images of the insurgents shared on social media platforms reflect this, with AK-47s depicted alongside more rudimentary weapons. Over the past four years, al-Shabaab which is not connected to the Somalia-based group of the same name has advanced both in its choice of weaponry and in its strategy. They were able to withstand the response from Mozambican forces and two private military companies the Russian paramilitary Wagner Group and the Dyck Advisory Group (DAG) which were contracted to suppress the insurgency in the region in 2019 and 2020. Al-Shabaab was able to capture and maintain control over large swathes of territory in Cabo Delgado, including holding the port town of Mocímboa da Praia for a year. The group also launched a successful attack on the town of Palma, a site of major developments in oil and gas exploitation in Cabo Delgado. Since July 2021, intervention by Rwandan forces and SADC coalition forces has helped Mozambican forces to recapture some of this territory. Yet the conflict continues, and has resurged in parts of Cabo Delgado and spread into other provinces. Al-Shabaab has also re-established its connection with the Islamic State, as evident from Islamic State propaganda surrounding recent attacks. Several analysts have argued that al-Shabaab has also sourced weapons from outside Mozambique, arguing that this is how the group has become better equipped over time. Some have speculated that regional criminal networks have made use of northern Mozambique’s historical smuggling routes transporting commodities such as drugs, illicitly procured gems and timber to traffic weapons to al-Shabaab. Recent Global Initiative Against Transnational Organized Crime analysis of the Cabo Delgado situation which draws on research our team has been conducting in the region since 2018 has investigated this possibility and considered several other potential routes of arms flows. --dailymaverick.co.za-