She is the first African woman and first person from Africa to serve as Prosecutor at the International Criminal Court.
                     
The Assembly of States Parties elected her by consensus to serve in this capacity, and the African Union nominated and supported her as the only African candidate for the position.

Among her quotes, Bensouda describes herself as being a prosecutor for 121 states.

“I think my track record speaks for myself... I have been endorsed by the African Union, but I am a prosecutor for 121 state parties and this is what I intend to be until the end of my mandate.”

She has greatly strengthened the capacity of the office through a number of strategic and managerial initiatives and has expanded the office's activities to include 14 investigations and countless active preliminary examinations in conflicts around the world.

Through her work, she strived to advance accountability for atrocity crimes, highlighting in particular the importance of addressing traditionally underreported crimes such as sexual and gender-based crimes, mass atrocities against and affecting children, as well as the deliberate destruction of cultural heritage within the Rome Statute framework.

Bensouda is also a recipient of numerous awards, including the distinguished International Commission of Jurists' International Jurists Award (2009), the 2011 World Peace Through Law Award, the American Society of International Law’s Honorary Membership Award (2014) and the XXXV Peace Prize .

Additional to receiving several honorary doctorates, Bensouda has been listed by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the world (2012), by the New African magazine as one of the most influential Africans, by Foreign Policy as one of the leading global thinkers (2013), by Jeune Afrique as one of 50 African women who, by their actions and initiatives in their respective roles, advance the African continent (2014 & 2015), and by Forbes magazine as one of Africa’s 50 Most Powerful Women (2020).

She is not just a prosecutor but an African who is very proud.

She served successively as Senior State Counsel, Principal State Counsel, Deputy Director of Public Prosecutions, Solicitor General and Legal Secretary of The Republic of The Gambia and Attorney General and Minister of Justice of The Republic of The Gambia.

In 2018, she joined the eminent roster of International Gender Champions, a network of "gender champions" founded in 2015.

Her international career as a non-government civil servant formally began at the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, where she worked as a Legal Adviser and Trial Attorney before rising to the position of Senior Legal Advisor and Head of the Legal Advisory Unit (2002 to 2004), after which she joined the ICC as the Court’s first Deputy Prosecutor.

Bensouda and her office were nominated for the 2021 Nobel Peace Prize, in recognition of their accomplishments and work in advancing international criminal justice, without fear or favour.

In one of her famous quotes Bensouda says: “I am a victim-oriented person. I like to see that the victims know that they have a voice.”
–MandisaMagwaza–