The British actor was granted a diplomatic passport by Sierra Leone President, Julius Maada Bio, on December 20, 2019. Idris, who also has Ghanaian roots through his mother, has officially become the brand ambassador of his second homeland. "My father (who died in 2013) and my mother worked 25 years, even 30 years without being able to take me to Sierra Leone. “By the time I could get there, the country was in turmoil and I was pursuing my dreams. I always said to myself that if I went to Sierra Leone one day, I would leave a mark there". Idris says he was happy not to have arrived empty-handed, citing a proverb inherited from his mother. It is therefore his heart that he says he brought to Sierra Leone. "My heart is what I want to bring to Sierra Leone and what my heart brings is determination", he declared, in particular, to restore the image of the country. Artistic and economic ambitions for Sierra Leone For Idris, Sierra Leone appears as a new horizon in more ways than one. "I've been an actor for many years now. I'm very happy and very lucky about it (…).  But when it comes to the entertainment industry, America or Britain can't harbour my ambition. "Africa can harbour my ambition. I can create another Disney here. I can't do it in America," he told the BBC during his stay. Idris’ ambitions are not only in the artistic field. He has signed, through Sherbro Alliance Partners, a company he co-founded, a memorandum with the Sierra Leonean government for the development of a charter town, Sherbro Island City, located on Sherbro Island (south coast of Sierra Leone). "The Sherbro Island City project is structured as a public-private partnership between the GoSL (Sierra Leonean government) and Sherbro Alliance Partners, a company spun off from the vision of Idris Elba and Siaka Stevens. “Elba and Stevens are supported in this effort by a very experienced international team", indicates the press release published on the website of the Sierra Leonean presidency. He also clarifies that Siaka Stevens “has come from a long-established Sierra Leonean family”. "My commitment to Sherbro Island City is driven by the desire to make a difference, but in such a way as to produce tangible benefits for West Africans in the long term," Idris Elba said at the time, according to the presidential statement. In recent years, Sierra Leone and the African roots of Idris Elba are more visible in the artistic production of the latter. In 2018, he created In the Long Run, a semi-autobiographical series that tells the tribulations of a Sierra Leonean family, the Easmons, whose leader is inspired by his father.