The two-time Olympic 800m champion is pushing to qualify for the world championships in the 5 000m race this year, and used this 3 000m distance to work on her speed. Semenya ran in tandem with her good friend Glenrose Xaba for most of Wednesday night’s race in chilly and windy conditions. But on the third-last lap, she went to the front and charged away from the rest of the field to win in a superb time of eight minutes, 54.97 seconds (8:54.97) the sixth-fastest time by a South African, beating her previous best of 9:04.20. The 3 000m national record is held by Elana Meyer, whose mark stands at 8:32.00. The 31-year-old Semenya will return to Green Point in a few weeks’ time for the South African championships, where she will compete in the 5 000m and considering the time she produced in the 3 000m on Wednesday, she will be pushing hard for the 5 000m world championship qualifying time of 15:10.00. Xaba had to settle for third position in a time of 9:12.51, as she was passed by Aynslee van Graan, who grabbed second in 9:09:63. “We are always happy with performances as long as you are improving, and you are running PBs, you will always be happy! So, for now, the main goal is just to be better in each and every race we run, so that we can be contenders in the 3km, 5km in the European season,” Semenya told the media track-side. “We are quite happy with the time. Xaba pushes hard, went hard, and I thought I would take her with the interchange. “She took charge and she told me I will pass when I see she is slowing down a bit. We did just that and ran according to plan. Unfortunately the wind was a little bit,  hitting us a lot, especially on the home straight. “The bend was a bit difficult to run, but pushing hard like that always, we get a better result.” The big picture, of course, is the world championships in July and August in Eugene, Oregon. “If it comes, it comes. But it is possible, if you are able to run a sub-nine on a 3km, it shows that you are almost like 15:00 on a 5 000m,” Semenya said. “But for me, it’s not always the goal. The goal is to come back and show up for my people, show that I still have a love for athletics. But it would be great if we can do the world champs. At the moment, the goal is to run the African champs.” Former junior world champion Sokwakhana Zazini produced the other outstanding performance of the night in the men’s 400m hurdles. In the men’s 110m hurdles, Antonio Alkana found it tough to run in the blustery wind, which caused him to miss out on a sub-14-second time. --IOL Sport--