A group of women from the African Party for the Independence of Guinea and Cape Verde (PAIGC) asked the United Nations in Bissau today to intervene to facilitate the holding of the party's 10th congress. The group today delivered an open letter at the UN headquarters in the Guinean capital to be sent to the Secretary-General, António Guterres, who they ask to mediate between the party and the authorities, whom they accuse of preventing the congress from taking place. Nhama Na Kofa, secretary-general of the Women's Democratic Union (UDEMU) said that the PAIGC "is the victim of injustices" by the Guinean authorities which is why it is calling for the United Nations to intervene. "It's a complicated situation. Every time there is a PAIGC congress there are problems that we don't even know why. It was like that at our last congress. The other parties held their congress without a problem. We don't understand why all this is against the PAIGC," said the leader of the party's women's organisation. Na Kofa also said that the party "is the target of a lack of respect" which, she said, only the United Nations could stop. "We could have gone to another embassy, but we decided to come here to the United Nations headquarters because it is the largest organisation in the world. We want the UN to stop the injustices against the PAIGC," noted Na Kofa. The delegation also included veteran of the armed struggle for the independence of Guinea Bissau, Teodora Inacia Gomes who called on António Gomes to "solve the problem. The veteran also said that the party did not intend to resort to violence. "We don't want violence, if that was our intention there would already be bloodshed, or deaths," said Inácia Gomes, stressing that the PAIGC did not fight against Portuguese colonialism to "see Guinea-Bissau this way. The PAIGC was forced to suspend the holding of its 10th congress which was due to take place last weekend, after two successive postponements, following a police intervention that prevented militants from accessing the party's headquarters in Bissau. The police, who have a surveillance device on the property, say they are there to carry out orders from a judge who is considering a restraining order brought against the party by a militant who allegedly claims to have been unfairly prevented from taking part in the 10th congress. The PAIGC considers those judicial proceedings a strategy by the current elements in power in Guinea-Bissau to make the main meeting impossible. --ChannelAfrica--