Kick-off is at 9:30 pm CAT. The Carthage Eagles took control of this tie when they secured a 1-0 win in the first-leg encounter in Mali on Friday with Moussa Sissako scoring an unfortunate own-goal on the day. Tunisia will qualify for this year's World Cup finals in Qatar if they avoid a defeat against the Eagles and it will be their sixth appearance in the global tournament. Jalel Kadri, the Carthage Eagles head coach, refused to get carried away after their first-leg win and he urged his charges to remain vigilant with a spot in the finals at stake. “This victory will not matter if we do not confirm it in the return leg. We know that it will be even more difficult and that is why we will forget this victory on the way," Kadri told the media. "Nothing is decided yet. We will remain very calm, very focused because it will be another match even if we have a slight advantage." “Mali has great players and despite playing in numerical inferiority, it posed problems and that is why we must remain vigilant." Meanwhile, Mali are still licking their wounds following their narrow defeat to the North African giants and they will be without suspended defender Sissako, who was sent off in the first-leg clash. The Eagles' hopes of qualifying for the World Cup finals for the first time are still alive, but they will have to claim a victory in Tunisia in order to book their spot in the prestigious football tournament. The West African side will welcome back their captain Hamari Traore, who missed the first-leg clash due to suspension. The right-back is confident that they can overcome the Carthage Eagles. "We are disappointed with the result but it's only the first leg. The players got their jerseys wet, we weren't able to take advantage of our highlights," Traore told CAF Online. "I'm going to take this opportunity to congratulate the public who came out en masse, it's just a false start and I hope the public will continue to support us. We have the means and the will to do it, to succeed in this historic qualification." The last time Tunisia hosted Mali was in June 2021. The Carthage Eagles emerged 1-0 winners in an international friendly game at the Stade Olympique Rades in Tunisia. --SuperSport.com--