According to the department, another outbreak was detected in the Vhembe based Collins Chabane Municipality, in the Limpopo province. Spokesperson for the department, Reggie Ngcobo, says affected farms have been placed under quarantine while further surveillance is being conducted to determine the extent of the outbreak. “The farm and other lean farms have been placed under quarantine while further surveillance in the area is being conducted to determine the extent of the outbreak. “A joint operations commission, supported by local Members of the Mayoral Committee for safety and security, the provincial disaster risk management committees of both Dr Kenneth Kaunda and JB marks was established and its first sitting was on the past weekend,” says Ngcobo. The department has urged farmers and livestock owners, to abide by the movement restrictions in place in all the affected areas to prevent the further spread of the virus. Meanwhile, KwaZulu-Natal Agriculture Members of the Executive Council Bongiwe Sithole-Moloi has imposed restrictions on the movement and trading of livestock in the Umkhanyakude district in the north of the province. This follows an outbreak of foot and mouth disease in the area. According to the department, over 1 000 livestock has been affected. Sithole-Moloi says they will be working together with law enforcement authorities to monitor the movement of animals to curb the spread of the disease to other parts of the province. “We came here to enforce the restrictions and also to ensure that the movement is being restricted but the impact that has been seen is that we had a few dip tanks that have been affected previously. “We’re in an understanding that we must cooperate with each other. We will not allow the movement until we are satisfied. Yes, when they see that there’s nobody in sight in the area, they feel that they can maneuver and sell to each other so we’re saying we are going to look at that, as well as beef up our team,” says Sithole-Moloi. --SABC--