His passing leaves a huge gap at the station where his burning desire for change was visible in his everyday engagements. He was a Pan-Africanist of note and firmly believed in the development of the continent. Koti, 47, a seasoned journalist, communicator and broadcaster, joined the station following a stint at the Nelson Mandela Foundation. He brought with him over 23 years of collective experience in media, public service, private sector and more recently non-governmental organisations. The station would like to convey messages of condolence to his family, friends and former colleagues: Tributes: Busisiwe Chaane: Acting Business Manager: Channel Africa: “It's difficult to describe the effect that Luzuko's passing has had on me. As someone who worked with him as he enthusiastically focused on bringing his grand vision to life, it is difficult even to imagine what life will be like now that his bright light shines eternal in the universe. Go well, Badela, Be in Power, always! Tshepo Tsheole: Digital and Online Editor: Channel Africa: “Rest well leadership, rest well Badela. You will be solely missed. We will carry your teachings, vision with us, always.” Mandisa Magwaza: Digital Product Specialist: Channel Africa “We are devastated by your passing, rest easy Luzuko, you will be dearly missed.” Bomkazi Malobola: Web Writer: Channel Africa: “I am lost for words. I still can’t believe you are gone. Rest in Power.” Muntu Khanyile: Management Accountant: Channel Africa:  “Luzuko, a committed Pan Africanist who believed in Pan Africanism as the “Future for Africa.” My sincere condolences to his family, colleagues and friends. You will be solely missed my leader. You have left a vacuum that would be difficult to fill. Rest in Power!” Karabo Rangwetsi: Programmes Manager: Channel Africa: “We have lost a fearless, bold pro-African leader in Luzuko. He was a strict yet caring leader, with a clear vision for Channel Africa and what the station ought to do in preaching pan-Africanism. He may be gone but Luzuko's fighting spirit for equality and his love for Africa will forever live in our hearts. My sincere condolences to his family, friends, colleagues and former colleagues. May his soul rest in power!” Sifiso Hlophe: Social Media Specialist: Channel Africa: “Luzuko Koti, your leadership will forever remain with us. Rest in Power!” Amanda Matshaka: Web Writer: Channel Africa: “I'm deeply saddened by the news of Mr Koti's passing, may his soul rest in peace. Condolences to his family and loved ones.”

Marietjie De Kok: Station Administrator: Channel Africa: “The world has lost an incredible life. Family and friends, you have my sincere condolences and deepest sympathy and unending love. Luzuko, may your soul rest in peace.” Moffat Mokoena: Web Writer: Channel Africa: “It’s hard to say goodbye, we were just getting to know each other. Even God loves those we love most. Rest in Peace.” --ChannelAfrica--