According to the Head of Government, these measures will be adopted this week. Ulisses Correia e Silva made this announcement during the parliamentary debate in the plenary session of the National Assembly, adding that the list of measures also includes "strengthening the storage capacity of bulk cereals. According to the e Silva the period of meals offer in school canteens will also be reinforced, even during the holiday period, as well as the increase of the cattle feed subsidy. In order to avoid hoarding and speculation on the prices of basic goods, he promised the "reinforcement of supervision". Correia e Silva believes that producers and importers should be "encouraged" to make grouped purchases. External mobilisation of food aid and increasing the number of beneficiaries of the social inclusion income for the poorest families and agricultural credit lines and for semi-industrial fishing under favourable conditions are also measures indicated by the executive. In relation to credit lines, the amount, according to the e Silva, is 600 million escudos($7 million). In the area of employment, e Silva said, infrastructure works are being resumed in all the country's municipalities, adding that a new multi-year infrastructure package is being prepared to be implemented in order to "boost civil construction," which, he said, will have an impact on employment, namely of the low-income population. "Tourism, the sector most affected by the pandemic crisis, but also the fastest recovering sector, will deserve a positive differentiation in terms of extending moratoria and restructuring credits and debts with banks," the chief executive promised, justifying that it is a sector with a "strong impact" on employment. Besides the debate with the e Silva, a number of diplomas are also on the agenda, namely the law proposal establishing the special early retirement scheme for workers of the National Institute for Research and Agrarian Development for final overall vote. The deputies will also discuss and approve the draft law that creates the Special Economic Zone of Maio Island and the draft law that proceeds with the first amendment to Law No. 65/IX/2019, of 14 August that creates the Sovereign Private Investment Guarantee Fund. The draft resolution approving, for accession, the Constitution and Convention of the African Telecommunications Union, adopted in Cape Town in 1999 and revised in Harare in 2014, the draft resolution approving for accession, the Convention on the Recognition of Studies, Certificates, Diplomas, Degrees and other academic qualifications in Higher Education in African States are other items on the agenda. It will also be discussed and approved the draft resolution that approves, for ratification, the Agreement between the Republic of Cape Verde and the International Atomic Energy Agency, on the Application of Safeguards, under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Republic of Cape Verde and the International Atomic Energy Agency, on the Application of Safeguards, under the Non-Proliferation Treaty. --ChannelAfrica-- 