The completion of this review enables the immediate disbursement of $67.5 million to cover external and fiscal financing needs, bringing total disbursements under the arrangement to $ 135 million. The 40-month ECF arrangement was approved by the IMF Executive Board on March 29, 2021, with a total access of $312.4 million at the time, or 90% of quota). The arrangement aims to support Madagascar’s recovery from the pandemic and revive the authorities’ reform momentum to raise and sustain growth and reduce poverty. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, Madagascar benefitted from two IMF Rapid Credit Facility (RCF) disbursements of $ 165.99 million or 50% of quota in April 2020 and $171.9 million or 50% of quota in July 2020, and received an SDR allocation of $322 million in August 2021. Madagascar continues to be affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and is going through a severe cyclone season. After a contraction of GDP estimated at 7.1% in 2020, the recovery has been sluggish with growth estimated at 3.5% in 2021, in part reflecting a delayed reopening of the economy. Growth is projected to rebound more vigorously to 5.4% in 2022. Downside risks are high, as COVID-19 vaccination rates remain low, and Madagascar remains vulnerable to severe natural disasters. Following the Executive Board discussion, Antoinette Sayeh, Deputy Managing Director and Acting Chair, made the following statement: “Madagascar’s performance under the Fund-supported program for the first half of 2021 was broadly satisfactory despite the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and recent cyclones, which took a severe human and economic toll on the country. “The continuation of prudent policies and implementation of the reform agenda under the Extended Credit Facility arrangement will support the economic recovery and should help achieve more sustainable and inclusive growth . “The authorities are implementing a gradual fiscal consolidation while boosting much-needed social and investment spending. The 2022 Budget includes measures to increase domestic revenue mobilization and create the fiscal space for growth-enhancing spending. “Progress in the execution of social spending is a key program objective and requires better planning and a streamlined authorization process. Given Madagascar’s moderate risk of debt distress, it is recommended that the authorities follow a prudent debt management strategy that relies on grants and concessional financing for scaling-up investment. “Stronger efforts are needed to improve budget transparency and reporting. The authorities recently published four audit reports by the Cour des Comptes on the response to the COVID-19 pandemic. It will be essential to address the findings of those reports in order to strengthen governance and transparency. “The prompt publication of an independent third-party audit of COVID-19-related public procurement contracts is also important. The authorities are working on further strengthening public financial management. The effective enforcement of the anti-corruption legal framework is also necessary. “Reforms to mitigate fiscal risks include the preparation of a timetable for the transition toward an automatic fuel pricing mechanism along with the development of adequate social safety nets to protect the most vulnerable groups. Improving the financial situation of the public utility JIRAMA is also essential. “The authorities are also strengthening the disaster risk management system to address climate-related risks with technical assistance from the Fund. “The authorities are committed to continue enhancing the monetary policy framework, protecting central bank autonomy, and fostering financial sector development and financial inclusion.”` --imf.org--