Many areas have recently experienced biting fuel shortages and, where the commodity is available, the price has risen to prohibitive levels. The cost of living is rising. Inflation is at 6.29% in Kenya, 3.2% in Uganda, 4.2% in Rwanda, 3.8% in Tanzania, 13.3% in Burundi, 25% in South Sudan and 5% in the Democratic Republic of Congo. In Uganda, where fuel supply has been disrupted since January, there are places where a litre of petrol costs $3. Kenya was hit by a shortage this past week, crippling public transport services. Traders claimed the shortage had led to an increase in prices of fast-moving goods. In Kenya, the fuel shortage was blamed on the failure of the government to pay oil marketers their subsidy. Even after President Uhuru Kenyatta signed a supplementary budget for the payment of $298 million to the Petroleum Development Levy Fund (PDLF), the shortage continued on account of a dispute over the amount that the government owes the oil companies. Officials said it was $112 million, but the companies claim they are owed more than $173 million. In the supplementary budget that Kenyatta signed on April 4, he approved a $298.3 million allocation to the PDLF to stabilise prices and end the crisis. There was a rise in pump prices in the rest of East Africa, with governments blaming the Russian invasion in Ukraine in late February, which has led to a disruption of the global supply chain and a rise in costs across the globe. In Uganda, where the price of petrol has risen to $1.4 per litre, citizens want the government to consider a reduction in taxes on petroleum products and a cap on the pump price. Ugandans living near the border with Tanzania have been crossing over to buy cheaper fuel, especially at the southern border post of Mutukula. In Tanzania, President Samia Suluhu said the Russian invasion of Ukraine was one of the factors that has led to increased prices. She asked the Cabinet and leaders in various sectors to explain to the citizens why the cost of living had shot up.  The conflict in Ukraine is also threatening global supply of grain, edible oils and fertilisers. Last week, the Food and Agriculture Organisation said it was not clear whether Ukraine would have a harvest if the war dragged on, and uncertainty surrounded the prospects for Russian exports in the coming year. --TheEastAfrican-- 