A briefing by a group of United Nations (UN) experts says countries in east and west Africa belt are heavily exposed to the rising food prices after main global exporters Russia and Ukraine went to war. The briefing released by the UN Task Team for Global Crisis Response Group was supposed to determine how Russia’s invasion of Ukraine earlier in February was going to hurt global supply chains, as well as the access to food. But it found that Africa has most of the 36 countries labelled as most exposed to the price hikes of basic food like wheat, which both Russia and Ukraine sell the most to the continent as it is cheapest. In eastern Africa, Tanzania, Burundi, Democratic Republic Congo, Rwanda, Sudan, are the most exposed. While Congo, Senegal and Burkina Faso will face the same predicament from other parts of the continent. This is because these countries buy more than half of their wheat imports from Russia and Ukraine. Since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24, a number of countries in the West have implemented sanctions, including banning Russian vessels from docking at their ports, removing Russian banks from the global financials settlement system and banning certain Russian exports. As a result, the prices of wheat and maize, two biggest stable foods in Africa, have risen sharply globally. The two commodities had, in fact, seen price hikes during Covid-19, after supply chains broke down as borders were shut. But after the invasion, the two cereals have maintained a 30% rise. The UN warns that eastern Africa may be the worst hit in Africa. According to the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (Igad), at least 29 million people scattered in Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and South Sudan are facing famine-like situations. Beyond food supply, the UN team says the region is still exposed for relying heavily on donor funds and external debts to finance programmes and importation of fuel. Globally, at least 1.7 billion people in 107 economies “are severely exposed” to at least one of the crisis indicators such as rising food prices, rising energy prices, and tightening financial conditions,” the document said. For countries like Kenya and Uganda, who have to repay loans, they will now pay more as their currencies have depreciated. At the height of the Covid-19 pandemic, countries spent at least 16% of their exports to service debts. Under the current situation, some may even default as the exports market is not yet stable. The UN team predicts the debt problem may be worse than it was after second World War. --TheEastAfrican--