A group of investors put proposals to the annual shareholders meetings of Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson and Moderna but were voted down. They argued sharing this intellectual property would speed up the rollout of vaccines by boosting manufacturing. But the drug-makers say they are making doses faster than they can be used. More than 11.4 billion doses of vaccine have now been distributed worldwide, although a third of the global population have not had a single dose, according the head of the World Health Organisation Dr Tedros Ghebreyesus. Taking the unprecedented step of addressing the Moderna annual general meeting, he said their help to boost vaccine production "would save lives, decrease the risk of variants and reduce the pandemic's economic toll". But his argument that the "global inequity would lead to many more deaths" was not enough to convince shareholders. Only 24% backed the idea of the company undertaking a feasibility study into transferring intellectual property and technical know-how to manufacturers in low and middle-income countries. Amongst Pfizer shareholders only 27.3% were in favour a similar motion. Johnson & Johnson has not yet released numbers but the proposal also failed there. Netherlands-based Achmea Investment Management is leading a group of 65 firms who collectively control $3.5trillion of assets and support the idea. "I think a significant amount of the investors have shown us support of these steps," Frank Wagemans, Achmea's senior engagement specialist told the BBC. But he added: "We need more in the months and years ahead because we know the Covid pandemic is not over yet." He said it was a "small win" that Moderna had at least introduced a link between executive bonuses and how well the firm meets demand for Covid vaccines from less well-off countries. "The global economic recovery continues to be constrained by unequal access to tools to prevent and treat Covid-19," International Monetary Fund economist Ruchir Agarwal told the BBC. The development body says an improved roll-out can help boost the global economy by $9 trillion by 2025. Last year Moderna delivered 807 million doses of Covid vaccines, which made it a profit of $12.2billion. It says that more than a quarter of these went to low or middle-income countries. Laying out the case against the shareholder proposal, its board of directors said it could have delivered more if it hadn't been for "last mile" difficulties and highlighted Africa as an example. These problems include refrigeration capacity, the availability of health workers and vaccine hesitancy. The United States based firm also says its working with its partners to increase production and is building a manufacturing facility in Kenya to increase future availability of vaccines. --BBC--