The measures, detailed by Finance and Planning Minister, Mwigulu Nchemba and his Investment, Industry and Trade counterpart, Ashatu Kijaji, include ensuring that government institutions entrusted with checking product prices continue with their regulatory mechanism of trends in the market. Special focus, said Kijaji, would be on products that are manufactured locally by using domestic raw materials. “The government sees no reason why prices of such products should rise,” she said. The government, through the Ministry of Investment, Industries and Trade, will sit down with manufacturers and come up with ways of dealing with domestic shocks and propose joint measures of dealing with external ones. The government has also come up with a system that shows the availability and prices of various products in the market on daily basis. “We are also coming up with a call centre whereby citizens will make phone calls whenever they see price changes so that the government can work on them accordingly instead of depending on trade officers alone,” said Kijaji. Special incentives will be issued to importers of sunflower cooking oil while performance agreements will also be issued to those who will be availed with licenses to process palm oil in the country. Sunflower farmers will receive modern seeds. In an effort to raise sunflower production and boost cooking oil availability in the country, the government will raise the volume of modern seeds distributed to farmers from 2000 tonnes this year to 5000 tonnes in the coming year. Expounding on the measures, Nchemba said in its short term measures, the government intends to reduce import duty on sugar from within member states of the East African Community to levels that are less than 10%. He said the government has already directed the Tanzania Revenue Authority to also look for short-term measures in an effort to reduce the spiralling prices of cooking oil within one month from now, hinting that new import rates could be introduced in the coming few weeks. The government will review regulatory fees and levies charged on petroleum products with a view to reducing them to levels that will bring some relief to Tanzanians. --TheCitizen--