Hengari, from the Popular Democratic Movement (PDM), was speaking in Parliament, saying it would be an act of good faith. "There's a recent trend in southern Africa and the politics of Sub-Saharan Africa in most countries. You look at Rwanda, you look at Zambia; the President of Zambia, Hakainde Hichilema, has gone for eight months without a salary. President Paul Kagame, when he came into power, took a salary cut as a sign and symptom of nobility, and to instill a sense of sharing among the citizens. Hengari said: So, as a young person, my question is: when is the President taking a cut on his salary? Or if ever he's going to take a position where he says 'for these next few months, because of the poverty, because of the ongoing conditions in the education system and so forth, I, as president and head of state, am going to take a salary cut'. "Is that ever going to happen? Honourable Minister (to the speaker of Parliament), should we look forward to that?" she asked. Geingob came into power in 2014, following Sam Nujoma and Hifikepunye Pohamba. According to reports in Namibia in 2016, only a year into power, Geingob earned R350 000($24 000) tax free, a month - which was 15% more than that of his predecessor. Responding to revelations that he had gone without a salary, Hichilema said: "The issue of the salary is a non-issue because money was not our motivation for seeking public office, not that the government was not willing to pay. However, unlike the first Presidents in most African countries that gained independence from colonialism, Hichelema, as the seventh since independence, excluding Guy Scott, who acted for four months, came into office from a background of wealth. His wealth spans finance, property, ranching, healthcare and tourism interests. During the run-up to the presidential elections last year, he told Zambians that they needed a successful businessman to understand how to get the economy moving in the copper-rich nation. Salary cuts are not new for presidents in Zambia. In 2016, Edgar Lungu took a 50% cut; three years later, he took another 15% cut, to lead by example in austerity measures. However, Lungu's family was, on numerous occasions, implicated in corruption allegations. --News24--