The Minister of Higher Education, Scientific Research, and Innovation Abdellatif Miraoui presented the “National Plan to Accelerate the Transformation of the Ecosystem”. The new reform, which is expected to take effect in  September 2023, will require students to pass the English language proficiency test and receive a minimum B1 level, lower intermediate level, in order to get their undergraduate diploma. Students will also be required to receive a minimum B2 level intermediate level in the foreign language in which they pursue their program, such as French. Those who already have the proficiency tests such as DALF and DELF for French or IELTS or TOEFL for English, will be given the opportunity if they wish to learn another language such as Chinese or Spanish, Miraoui noted. The country’s decision to reduce the duration of medical training from seven to six years will also take effect in the new academic year for 2022-2023. Through the global and inclusive reform, Miraoui said that his aim is “to raise the quality of our education to a very high level.” The minister also spoke about the possibility of introducing cooperative education, also known as co-op, as a way to provide students with the know-how needed in the job market. The co-op is a program that balances classroom theory with periods of practical, hands-on experience prior to graduation. He highlighted the role of digital technology alongside the development of human resources and scientific research, to try to provide equal opportunities for students. The Ministry of Education under the former government has previously announced that a four-year bachelor degree would replace 3-year licence programs at public universities, but the new government has seemingly abandoned the idea. Students who were enrolled in bachelor programs around the country would be redirected to different degrees, depending on their individual choices, according to Mustapha Baitas, spokesperson for Morocco’s government. Baitas noted that a clear legal and educational framework are the main reason behind the abandonment. In Morocco, although the teaching languages are mainly French or Arabic, many private and semi-private institutions offer degrees in English. Al Akhawayn University in Ifrane, and Mohammed VI Polytechnic University in Benguerir are examples of private universities that offer English speaking courses. --MoroccoWorldNews--