The 11 years of unabated bloodshed took the lives of over 50 000 people and a catalogue of war crime violations including rape, abductions, mutilations and mass murder. Over 2.5 million people were displaced and the lives of those that survived the war were left with deep scars that are still struggling to heal. One of the processes hoped to bring about the healing that the West-African country needed was the establishment of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), which in its report noted that there were “serious and grotesque human rights violations” during the war by rebel groups. There is something brave and decisive about the Sierra Leone government in addressing the atrocities of war. Informed by the TRC report, they asked the United Nations (UN) to help set up a Special Court for Sierra Leone, which would try those who "bear the greatest responsibility for the crimes against humanity, war crimes and serious violations of international humanitarian law. This will also be the 20th anniversary of the TRC and the Special Court established by the UN. One of the most painful effects of the war was turning children into killing machines, removing in them the purity and innocence of childhood. I must have, as a young journalist in the late 90s seen hundreds of footage and pictures of children carrying automatic rifles, hand grenades and other weaponry. A case of children truly behaving badly. This also left a great number of infrastructure destroyed in what were targeted attacks on “strategic points” such as clinics, hospitals and schools. The Revolutionary United Front (RUF) and the Armed Forces Revolutionary Council (AFRC) accounted for most of the killings during the war even though there were other groups that emerged under the guise of ‘self-defence’ or civil defence militia, as they were known. These included but not limited to the Kamajors, Capras, Tamaboros and Dunsos. “They played a major role in clearing Sierra Leone's interior of forces loyal to Major Johnny Paul Koroma's ousted military junta” (Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada - IRB). It is noteworthy that Pakistan deployed one of the largest contingents from 2001-2005. The UN said “peacekeeping practices by our troops soon won the hearts and minds of local populace and the UN leadership alike and turned into a success of the UN to stabilise the situation.” Being the largest contingent, Pakistanis had major share in disarmament of 10 000 rebels by the UN Assistance Mission in Sierra Leone. They also concentrated on humanitarian assistance by building schools, roads, hospitals, places of worship and playgrounds etc. Today, 20 years on, this West-African country known for its white sand beaches is now a land of peace. It emerged from slave trade and a devastating 11 years of war. Although healing is a continuous process as the wounds of war cut too deep and left destroyed homes and communities, the people of Sierra Leone continue to pursue national unity, prosperity and healing. In 2019, Sierra Leone’s real Gross Domestic Product was growing by 5.4% but crippled by the harsh COVID-19 effects. Like many African countries, Sierra Leone needs increased external financial assistance to support a resilient recovery.  --Luzuko Koti--