The East Africa region’s installed cement capacity is currently estimated at 15.6 million tons, with 8.6 million tons of that figure produced in Kenya according to data from the Kenya National Bureau of Statistics. Cement firms are expanding their total clinker production capacity by 70% to 10.7 metric tons per year by 2023 from the current 6.3 metric tons as part of their strategy to expand in the EAC region. East African Portland Cement Company (EAPCC), National Cement, Bamburi Cement, Karsan Ramji & Sons, Rai Cement and Savannah Cement plan to add a total of 4.4 metric tons annually to their clinker capacities. “In the past 10 years, EAPCC has been missing from the infrastructural agenda due to competition among other challenges. Now we have come up with a five year strategic plan as we want to revamp our operations,” said Oliver Kirubai, managing director at the EAPCC. “We are targeting the East African market, including the DRC. We are getting inquiries from Rwanda as well.” All the EA countries have infrastructure projects lined up. “Uganda and Tanzania want to do roads and the Standard Gauge Railway. In Kenya, the growth in cement production and consumption is attributed to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s Agenda Four pillars including housing and manufacturing sectors,” he said. “Despite Covid-19 pandemic, the cement demand has been growing. The cement industry is growing at a double digit growth because of government spending on infrastructure.” Infrastructural projects such as the Nairobi Expressway, Dongo Kundu bypass, James Gichuru-Rironi highway, Nairobi Western bypass, as well as construction of mega dams in various parts of the country have seen increased consumption of cement. Last week, the DRC Deputy President and Minister for Foreign Affairs, Christophe Lutundula Apala Pen’Apala, said one of the things they want to do is surface infrastructure. The EAPCC welcomed DRC’s entry into the EAC regional bloc saying its 92 million people population offers a huge market for industrial products from Kenya. --TheEastAfrican--