Thousands have died and millions have been displaced since war broke out in Ethiopia's Tigray region in November 2020 between Abiy's federal forces, backed by regional allies, and the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) that governs the region. In a tweet, Abiy described his conversation with Biden as "candid" and said the pair had discussed strengthening cooperation, while a senior US administration official said the call was business-like and focused on issues. "Biden expressed concern that the ongoing hostilities, including recent air strikes, continue to cause civilian casualties and suffering," the White House said in a statement after the two leaders spoke. An air strike in Tigray killed 56 people in a camp for displaced people and injured 30, including children, two aid workers told Reuters on Saturday. Aid organisations suspended their operations in the area of northwest Tigray where the strike took place, the United Nations (UN) agency for humanitarian affairs said on Sunday, citing an ongoing threat of drone strikes. UN Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, in a statement on Monday said the UN and its partners were working with authorities to urgently mobilise emergency assistance to the area of a refugee camp in Tigray hit by another air strike last week that killed three Eritrean refugees. The White House also said Biden and Abiy discussed "the need to address the human rights concerns of all affected Ethiopians, including concerns about detentions of Ethiopians under the state of emergency." Human rights groups and the UN have raised concerns about large-scale detentions of ethnic Tigrayans. Abiy's government has denied any ethnically motivated detentions were taking place. Ethiopia, Africa's second most populous nation, is a major power in the Horn of Africa. The US has long partnered with Ethiopia to try to contain Islamist militants in neighbouring Somalia. But relations have become more tense since the Tigray conflict broke out. Ethiopia previously accused Washington of meddling in its internal affairs. The official said Monday's call was in part intended to put the US-Ethiopia relationship onto constructive footing. The US recently cut Ethiopia from access to a duty-free trade programme, following through on Biden's threat to do so over alleged human rights violations in Tigray. --Reuters--