He charged Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) to work towards addressing some re-occurring logistics issues in the conduct of elections and ensure that the 2023 general elections are different from all previous elections in terms of INECs preparations and delivery. Yakubu made the call during the Commission’s second quarterly meeting with RECs in Abuja. He explained that the meeting would review the engagements with stakeholders on the proposed expansion of voters’ access to polling units as well as preparations for the Continuous Voter Registration exercise, among other things. This, as political parties prepare for the polls as elective conferences planning get underway. Channel Africa spoke to Nigerian journalist and political analyst, Adekunle Adeniyi, who stated that the 2023 elections will mark the fifth transfer of power to a democratically-elected government. President Muhammadu Buhari’s term ends in 2023. “Nigeria is looking forward to vote for a President with integrity who is competent enough to lead and to address the challenges of the country”, said Adeniyi. “There is a lot of anticipation in the air, a lot is going on as far as preparations is concerned and these start with a look at Nigeria’s electoral laws. “There have been issues about certain areas of amendments of our electoral laws, talking about the issue of the news of electronic transmission of results and the mode of primaries to be used by political parties”. Adeniyi said certain clauses were placed in electoral laws. The National Assembly is supposed to let every stakeholder within the political parties vote for candidates that will lead the parties and to contest for presidency in the elections. However, that has not sat well with a number of stakeholders as they have laws that guide political parties and their internal democracy. The analyst shares insight on the issue of the amendment of electoral laws and on what to expect building up to the 2023 elections. Take a listen… --Amanda Matshaka/Channel Africa---