The complaint came after two recent cases involving journalists in the country, the first in which the President of the Supreme Court of Justice (STJ) questioned the interpretive capacity of a professional, ordering the correction of a piece broadcast on public television. But for the President of the AJOC, the most serious case is the constitution of defendants in a case of alleged violation of judicial secrecy of the digital daily Santiago Magazine and its editor and director. "We understand that, with this action, the Public Ministry intends to put a gag on journalists, limiting their actions and investigative journalism itself in Cape Verde," Geremias Furtado said at a press conference in Praia. The conference took place at the same time as the solemn commemorative session of the Day of Freedom and Democracy, which marks the holding of the first multiparty elections in Cape Verde on January 13, 1991. The cases were not mentioned directly by those involved, but the President of the Republic, José Maria Neves, defended the importance of a "free, strong and independent press" as "one of the most solid guarantees of democracy". The lawsuit concerns a story published by that organ, on December 28, which reported a Public Ministry investigation into the current Minister of Internal Administration, Paulo Rocha, for alleged involvement in a murder in 2014, when he was head of the Judiciary Police, during an operation of that police force. For AJOC, the Public Ministry's action is "strange" since the journalist is not covered by the secret of justice, noting that were it not for the free and independent press, the case would never come to light and would fall into oblivion. "Cape Verdean society owes it to the media. It is the price of being an open and democratic society. Today it is Hermínio Silves and Santiago Magazine, tomorrow it will be others, unless you want a docile and domesticated journalism," he warned. For the trade union association, Cape Verde is facing a "real attack on press freedom" and will launch an "international call for help", forwarding these episodes to Reporters Without Borders (RSF), the International Federation of Journalists and other international entities. "Because we believe that freedom of the press is indispensable to democracy and that we should not accept it being called into question, even more so by those who have the duty and obligation to defend it," continued the journalist, who called on his colleagues not to be intimidated by these actions. "And that they remain firm in the exercise of their functions and always denounce situations that call into question the freedom of the press and the rights of journalists in Cape Verde," he continued, understanding that the country needs to say "enough" to these situations involving journalists. -Channel Africa--