The judge accused the lawyer of "boycotting" the progress of the case by "refusing to be notified". The Mozambican Bar Association (OAM), an assistant in the case, challenged the measures, calling them "drastic positions" given the uncertainty about the notification of the lawyer. But the position did not deter the judge. "He does not want to come," said Efigénio Baptista, stressing that "when he is located, he will be captured, even after the trial is over, to be tried for the crime of disobedience, if the Public Prosecutor's Office sees fit." In October, the Maputo City Judicial Court decided to remove Alexandre Chivale from the defence of the former director of economic intelligence of the Mozambican secret services António Carlos do Rosário in the hidden debts trial. At the time, Baptista granted a request from the public ministry, alleging incompatibility because the defender was an employee of the Mozambican secret service. The public prosecutor also opened an autonomous case against Chivale for alleged indications of money laundering and obstruction of justice. In addition to António Carlos do Rosário, the lawyer was also part of the team of lawyers of Ndambi Guebuza, defendant and eldest son of former Mozambican President Armando Guebuza. He also defended Inês Moiane, defendant and private secretary of the former president, as well as Elias Moiane, nephew of that defendant. The hearings of the hidden debts trial led by judge Efigénio Baptista began on August 23 2021. There are 19 defendants accused by Mozambican justice of having joined a "gang" and defrauded the Mozambican state of $2.7 billion raised from international banks through guarantees provided by the government. The hidden debts were incurred between 2013 and 2014 by Mozambican State-owned companies Proindicus, Ematum and MAM for tuna fishing and maritime protection projects. The loans were secretly endorsed by the government of the Mozambique Liberation Front (Frelimo), led by the President of the Republic at the time, Armando Guebuza, without the knowledge of parliament and the Administrative Court. -- Milton Maluleque /ChannelAfrica--