The focus will be on the recovery of the health and economic effects of the pandemic and the correction of asymmetries, a process that began on Tuesday. "We are talking about the recovery of the Covid-19 pandemic at all levels, the health recovery, but also the recovery and relaunch of the economy in an inclusive way, much fairer in terms of transition, Resident Co-ordinator of the UN System in Cape Verde, Ana Graça, explained. She said the priorities have been already identified, which joins the common "banner" of "climate action" or the fight against poverty and inequalities, between the islands and between communities in the archipelago. Dozens of representatives of the various UN agencies began a two-day retreat in Praia to launch the planning process for the next cooperation framework with Cabo Verde, which will run from 2023 to 2027. "We are not at the stage of talking about funds. “This is a process that will take six months, today is the launch, and we are very pleased because we are doing it with our national partners. We are also doing it with the government, but also with several entities that are not yet in Cape Verde, but have already expressed interest in strengthening cooperation, under the new cooperation framework with Cape Verde," Graça told journalists on the side-lines of the session to kick off this work. She added that it was necessary to "take a qualitative leap to ensure greater integration in the responses and search for solutions for Cape Verde" in the next cooperation framework, but covering "priority aspects," such as "the development of human capital," "inclusive growth, also in the perspective of transition, of coming out of a crisis. "And of a transition that we want to be fairer, more inclusive, greener, more resilient, for a more inclusive economic growth", Graça pointed out. According to the official, in addition to the UN agencies present in Cape Verde, at least three others have already demonstrated their willingness to integrate the next cooperation framework with their own projects. This is the case of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a UN agency specialised in information and communication technologies, as well as the UN Conference on Trade and Development and the African Economic Commission. "Our ambition is to bring in more entities, including those that are most needed at this time in the country, in terms of recovering from the crisis and resuming full sustainable development," said Graça. Cabo Verde is facing a deep economic and financial crisis, due to the sharp drop in tourism demand, a sector that accounts for 25% of the archipelago's gross domestic product (GDP), since March 2020, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. In 2020 there was a historic economic recession, equivalent to 14.8% of GDP. The Cape Verdean government admits that the economy may have grown between 6.5 and 7.5% in 2021, driven by the recovery of tourism demand, and forecasts 6% growth in 2022. The Government of Cape Verde and the UN System signed in October 2017 the UN Development Co-operation Framework in Cape Verde, budgeted at around S$92 million, whose execution ends this year, with the process now beginning to finalise the next framework, with no funds yet defined. --ChannelAfrica---