The film focuses on a woman who desperately tries to save her brother from a horrific fate. This true story was inspired by the director’s mother and touches on violence against freedom fighters in South Africa during apartheid. This topical short film won a gold medal at the 2021 Student Academy Awards, it also won the 2021 HBO Short Film Competition at the 2021 American Black Film Festival and is a 2021 Student BAFTA Award nominee. When The Sun Sets has been shortlisted for a 2022 Academy Award in the Live action Short Film category. Director/Writer Phumi Morare’s short films have played at international film festivals including Telluride Film Festival, Clermont-Ferrand Film Festival, and the American Black Film Festival. Her upcoming project Why The Cattle Wait was selected for the 2021 Berlinale Talents Durban program and the 2021 Tribeca Chanel Through Her Lens Women’s Filmmaker Program. Phumi is interested in redeeming the Black and feminine identity and using the Black female gaze to tell intimate stories of ordinary heroes and women. Producer Christine Cho brings a background in writing and producing and aims to create and put forward stories that inspire social and structural change. Christine is currently working on writing and producing short-form content at Story Mode, a young and diverse production company committed to bringing BIPOC, AAPI, and LGBTQ+ characters to the forefront. The director and the producer are interested in telling authentic stories, which is why this film was shot in South Africa with local actors. Editor Mojtaba Mirshekari has more than 7 years’ experience in editing narrative films, has contributed to many film projects as Editor/Director and has won more than 20 awards from well-known film festivals during his career The cinematography was inspired by the photography of Roy DeCarava who used to capture poetic images of Black people in Harlem in the 50s and 60s. It was created by Sherry Qian who is actively working as a DP for narrative films, documentaries and commercials in China and North America. Her work has received international recognition from over a dozen well-known film festivals." The sound designer, Andree Lin, was nominated for an MPSE Golden Reel Award for the sound design on the film. The song that opens and closes the film is also called Lakutshon’ Ilanga (When The Sun Sets) and was created by Miriam Makeba. The song is a poetic lament of someone waiting and searching for a loved one who’s disappeared during apartheid (a common occurrence) and never comes home. At the end the song is a tribute to those who remain disappeared after police kidnapping to this day.  --Channel Africa--