Southern African leaders meeting in Malawi this week must reinforce their military mission fighting insurgents in northern Mozambique, a mission which is “ridiculously under-resourced for the task it has been given”. South Africa lost its first soldier in the operation last month. Without a lot more infantry and equipment, casualties could start rising and the entire mission could be jeopardised. That’s the urgent message from military experts as well as a small, but plucky contingent of special forces who are effectively fighting the Islamic State-affiliated extremist group and killing many of its members. But they are almost on their own, without infantry back-up or adequate air support and other logistics and cannot sustain the intensity of the conflict without major reinforcements. The special forces of South Africa, Tanzania, Botswana and Lesotho have been in northern Mozambique’s Cabo Delgado province since mid-July 2021 as part of the Southern African Development Community (SADC) Mission in Mozambique (Samim). SADC is holding an extraordinary summit in Lilongwe, Malawi, this Wednesday to decide on the future of the military intervention when its current mandate expires on January 15. SADC ministers have recommended to their leaders that Samim’s mandate should be extended by six months to mid-July. Officials told Daily Maverick that they expect the heads of government will endorse this extension. But it’s not clear if they will also agree to beef up the mission which is urgent. Military officials originally envisioned Samim as a force of almost 3 000 soldiers with a few hundred special forces soldiers in the vanguard, to be bolstered by three battalions of infantry. They were also supposed to be supported by several attack and transport helicopters and other air and naval support. Two South African Air Force Oryx utility helicopters are doing most of the airlifting, providing vital support to a few hundred special forces from South Africa, Tanzania, Botswana and Lesotho. Samim said that 17 ASWJ terrorists had been killed in this operation and another was killed the next day in a firefight south of Messalo River. The total number of Samim casualties now seems to stand at 11. Apart from the two killed and six injured in firefights with ASWJ, one Tanzanian soldier had died falling from a helicopter, a Lesotho soldier had died from cerebral malaria and a Botswana soldier had died when he was accidentally run over by a truck. Mozambique, Samim and the Rwanda Defence Force, which has a much larger force deployed in Cabo Delgado than SADC has are killing many more insurgents than they themselves are losing. Mozambican soldiers have been widely criticised for running away when attacked, but much of their problem seems to be that they are badly equipped, especially when it comes to ammunition. It’s not quite clear why SADC has not so far deployed the full envisaged Samim force, though the main obstacle is probably cost. In July last year President Cyril Ramaphosa told Parliament he needed R984-million ($63.43 million) to deploy about 1 500 SA troops into Mozambique for three months. In October, SADC extended the Samim mission until January 15. But the SA government has not budgeted any more funds and seems to have stretched out the R984-million ($63.43 million) to cover six months of operations by deploying only special forces and not much equipment. So far, all the SADC countries participating in Samim seem to have financed their own contributions. However, officials have told Daily Maverick that SADC is negotiating with foreign donors to try to get further funding. --DailyMaverick--  