Abrahams has also been barred from further participation in the matter. Abrahams, who, since he was dropped as the national prosecuting boss in South Africa has had a not very successful stint prosecuting in Botswana, was brought in to help the prosecuting authorities in Lesotho with a series of high-profile, politically sensitive murder and treason cases. The case from which he has now been barred involves Lesotho’s former army commander Lieutenant-General Kennedy Kamoli and five others, charged with treason, murder and assault. In essence, the problem was that Abrahams was absent from the trial, with no explanation, when he should have attended on January 10, even though the date was arranged a couple of weeks earlier with all counsel involved. Before finalising the dates, the Chief Justice repeatedly made clear that he would not allow postponements because the accused had already spent five years in prison waiting for the trial to start. And he cited the Speedy Court Trials Act in terms of which an entire case could be “dismissed” by the court if the presiding judge found either side responsible for consistent and unwarranted delays. That same law also says that a prosecutor who causes delays by “double booking” not appearing in court for one matter because of appearing in a second case can be barred from court, a sanction that the Chief Justice has now imposed on Abrahams because of his “no-show” on January 10. In response to that decision and the Chief Justice’s handling of the matter, the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) brought an application for the Chief Justice to recuse himself from the case, saying it appeared that he was biased against the prosecution. The Chief Justice decided that recusal application this week, with a judgment scathingly critical of both Abrahams and the DPP, Hlalefang Mary Motinyane. He referred to the sitting of the court in December 2021, when he, as presiding officer in the matter, said he would be prepared to continue the trial during January vacation days, given the “inordinately long time” that the accused had been waiting, in prison, for the case to start. When counsel responded, indicating when in January they would be available, Abrahams said he already had another case during January, in South Africa. In his judgment on subsequent events, the Chief Justice said that at this point, the court (meaning himself) told Abrahams he “had to make a choice in the matter”. Eventually, all counsel involved agreed that the trial would run from January 10-21. However, when the case was called on the agreed date, a series of events took place that culminated in the recusal application. Requesting that he stand down from the case, the DPP claimed that the “conduct” of the Chief Justice “has not instilled confidence… that he will bring an impartial mind to bear in the adjudication of this trial”. She said that the impartiality and independence of the court had been “gravely tainted by the conduct” of the Chief Justice. “Incidents of bias,” she said, had “actually manifested themselves”, and the public understood that even the application for the Chief Justice’s recusal was a “sham”, which the Chief Justice would dismiss, and then proceed “as if nothing has happened”. In his judgment, the Chief Justice said that when the trial started on January 10, Abrahams did not appear and no explanation was given for his absence. Two others represented the prosecution, however, one of whom said he wanted to apply for a postponement of the case. Asked by the Chief Justice whether he had been briefed to prosecute the case, he replied that his only brief was to move for a postponement, something that the Chief Justice had repeatedly said he would not approve. The Chief Justice said when he pointed out the implications of the Speedy Court Trials Act, and the possible sanctions that could apply, counsel backed off from his intended postponement application. --DailyMaverick--