More than 800 000 learners wrote the matric exams in 2021 and are expecting their results this evening. With questions around how the required 30% pass mark will assist in helping leaners obtain higher education requirements, Education Expert, Mary Metcalfe, provides further details on how the Department of Basic Education system operates from ground level up to tertiary level. Metcalfe says Matric Higher Certificate requires 40% in three subjects, with a further 30% pass mark in three or four subjects being the lowest pass category. She highlights that the 30% mark is barely applicable to proceed to university, adding that the 30% only indicates that one has met the minimum requirements to qualify them obtaining a National Senior Certificate (NSC). Metcalfe adds: “But you can’t apply to university or obtain a diploma.” The education expert says in order for a learner to proceed to university, they need at least a 50% pass mark in four subjects, and 40% from home languages, “then you can get 30% in only one subject. “That means in the minimum of six subjects that you’ve passed, four of them you passed at 50%, and others at 40% if you are going to be able to apply and go to university. So, the 30% pass doesn’t apply in terms of an expectation, so this will set them up for failure. Full interview click audio below:  The pass requirement to go to University has been set higher so that learners can be more confident that they have achieved the level of which they should be able to cope. She says South Africa has one certification point in the system. “In many other African countries, the majority of learners don’t proceed to Grade 12, they leave earlier with a different qualification. But in South Africa there’s expectation from society that we need learners to commonly have plans to get to Grade 12.” Metcalfe urges South Africa needs to ensure that learners leave school with a sense of achievement. More than 41 596 markers were confirmed to handle matric exam papers at 194 centres across the country. Meanwhile, the High Court in Pretoria has reversed the Basic Education Department’s decision not to publish the National Senior Certificate results in the media. Lobby group AfriForum, Maroela Media and a 2021 matriculant, Anlé Spies, served court papers on Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga last week opposing the decision not to publish the results. --Bomkazi Malobola/Chanel Africa--