This year the country’s economy is projected to expand by 7.0%, slightly below the anticipated 10.2%, according to the latest International Monetary Fund ( IMF) figures released this past week. Still the projected rate is well above the initial forecast of 5.1%, signalling a strong rebound as key sectors of the economy reopen after a 3.4% contraction in 2020. The government now faces the twin challenge of mitigating the pandemic-induced increase in unemployment and poverty. The World Bank estimates that because of the lockdown, social distancing rules and increased costs associated with the pandemic, the number of poor people is likely to rise by 5.1 percentage points (more than 550 000 people) in 2021, with over 80% of the new poor in rural areas. Despite the government acting swiftly to mitigate the shocks, including setting up a multi-million dollar Special Economic Recovery Fund and expanding its social protection programmes, analysts say more interventions are needed to get more Rwandans back to work. According to Bo Li, Deputy Managing Director and acting Chairperson at the IMF, the Covid-19 pandemic has raised unemployment and poverty in Rwanda, which risks reversing hard-won gains. “With the acceleration of vaccinations and the resumption of economic activities, a strong economic rebound is underway, although risks remain tilted to the downside given the still low vaccination rate and the prospect of repeated Covd-19 waves,” he said in statement. Rwanda’s successful vaccination campaign has allowed it to reopen key sectors of the economy, including service sectors. Conference tourism and hospitality, which employ a majority of Rwandans, were hard hit during the pandemic. Recovery is also being supported by regional trade, in particular with the Democratic Republic of Congo. Analysts are, however, cautiously optimistic. They expect the economy to enjoy a strong recovery in 2022 but say new Covid restrictions implemented in the latter part of the year pose a risk. --TheEastAfrican--