"We were forced to make a suspension because the vaccine we had in the country was not enough to cover all the schools. “At this moment we are waiting for the vaccines to arrive at any moment in the country so that we can continue the vaccination in the schools that were not beneficiaries, both public and private", said Barros. The vaccination programme Co-ordinator assured that all adolescents between 12 and 17 years old will be vaccinated, stressing that those who had the first dose are currently having their second dose. "We have vaccinated around 18 000 adolescents between 12 and 17 years old in schools", said Barros. At a national level, the vccination coordinator regretted that the process is currently taking place "with very little adherence from the population". "Currently we have a coverage of about 50% for the first dose and for the second dose 31% of people have already been vaccinated, which is very low," she said. Barros assured that the vaccination for adults is still guaranteed, since the country has other types of vaccines, namely from Johnson & and Johnson, AstraZeneca and Sinopharm for this purpose. Daily covid-19 data released today by the Ministry of Health indicates that 187 468 doses of covid-19 vaccines have already been administered in the archipelago, 111 549 in the first dose, 27 112, in the second dose and 3 807 in the third dose. In the last 24 hours, no cases of covid-19 have been registered in the country. Currently, the archipelago has 10 people under medical surveillance, all on the island of Sao Tome, of which one is hospitalized. Sao Tome and Principe has an accumulation of 5 930 infections by the new coronavirus, 72 deaths from the disease, and 5 848 recoveries. The covid-19 has caused at least 5 892 084 deaths worldwide since the start of the pandemic, according to the most recent assessment by the France-Presse agency. The respiratory disease is caused by the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, detected in late 2019 in Wuhan, a city in central China. The Omicron variant, which spreads and mutates rapidly, has become dominant in the world since it was first detected in November in South Africa. --ChannelAfrica--