The insurgents, known both as Al Sunnah wa Jama'ah (ASWJ) and the Islamic State Central Africa Province, have displaced more than 745 000 people. "In northern Mozambique, there needs to be a commitment to the long haul for counter-insurgency forces to deal with the insurgents. “There also has to be a real commitment to dealing with local issues that, in many ways, set the scene for the conflict," Piers Pigou, Project Director Southern Africa International Crisis Group. He adds that a tough security response must be linked to an effective development agenda. By August 2020, insurgents had taken control of the port city of Mocimboa da Praia in Cabo Delgado province, with devastating impact. "As of November 2021, over 745 000 people were displaced in northern Mozambique. Among those displaced, 59% are children, 19% are women, 17% are men, and 5% are the elderly," Juliana Ghazi of the United Nation Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) says. Save the Children said in March 2021, militants beheaded children, some as young as 11. In the same month, they seized Palma, murdering dozens of civilians and displacing more than 35 000 of the town's 75 000 residents. Many fled to the provincial capital, Pemba. Ghazi said the agency was concerned "over the regional consequences of the ongoing displacement and protection crisis in Mozambique for Southern Africa, particularly the spillover of violence and refugees to neighbouring countries." She says the situation had "seemingly improved in Cabo Delgado since the intervention of regional allied forces in July 2021. It remains volatile with attacks taking place in some districts. "In the past months, the neighbouring province of Niassa also experienced attacks, and additional financial support is needed to assist the new displaced. UNHCR stresses the need for the security situation to continue to improve in hard to reach and partially accessible areas in Cabo Delgado to enable the provision of humanitarian assistance to those in need." --Allafrica--