Tuchel was sacked from the leadership of Paris Saint-Germain, a few days later he assumed the responsibility of the London team, which was mired in a sea of negative results under the leadership of its young coach, Frank Lampard. As for Mosimane, he came to the Red Castle in better conditions, but at a critical time, like his predecessor, the Swiss coach, Rene Weiler, insisted on leaving in response to the pressure of his family, before the decisive stages in the African Champions League. Tuchel walked on the thorns, and with him, Chelsea's results improved locally and continentally. He ended up winning the Champions League at the end of last season to return the two-eared cup to the London club after an absence of 9 years. Pitso on the other end, also overcame all the stages of questioning his abilities, as he was the first African coach to coach the Century Club. He led Al-Ahly to be crowned the African Champions League after a seven-year absence, but also succeeded in retaining the African title for the second time in a row, and led the team to win the bronze in the World Cup clubs. Tuchel re-balanced Chelsea, thanks to his reliance on the 3-4-3 plan and its derivatives 3-4-1-2, 3-4-2-1 or 5-4-1. 

He passed difficult tests in the European crowning campaign against Real Madrid, Atletico Madrid and Manchester City and Juventus. With this philosophy, Tuchel achieved 43 victories, 15 draws and nine defeats, and scored 126 goals against 53 goals in his 67 matches in all competitions. As for Mosimane, he decided to abandon the Al-Ahly plan more than once, whether 4-3-3 that Feiler relied on many occasions before his departure, and initially money for the 4-2-3-1 plan, which drew the character of the Egyptian team technically throughout recent years. After losing the league title last season, Mosimane stated more than once that he "learned the lesson", and this was translated by changing the game plan since the beginning of the current season to 3-4-3 to secure the team defensively from the counter-attacks that cost Al-Ahly a lot, and lost the local title. Mosimane followed Tuchel's footsteps, and this plan began to bear fruit, as Al-Ahly launched with full force this season, achieving 6 consecutive victories and one draw in the first seven rounds of the league championship. Al-Ahly's offensive effectiveness increased, as it scored 19 goals, and the team remains the strongest offensively and has relatively regained its defensive solidity by receiving 7 goals. Pitso Mosimane is a new-age version of the Portuguese genius "Manuel Jose", who was planning and implementing all the ideas and philosophies going on inside Al-Ahly Club, and he had the first and last word on all matters of the football team in the Red Castle. --Sifiso Hlope/ChannelAfrica--