It was found that people infected with this variant, named virulent subtype B (VB), have an average viral load between 3.5 and 5.5 times higher than usual for an HIV infection. Channel Africa spoke to Professor Adrien Puren, Head of the Centre for HIV and STIs at the National Institute for Communicable Diseases of South Africa and Professor Tulio de Oliveria, Professor of Bioinformatics at the University of KwaZulu Natal to unpack the issue. According to De Oliveria, research among 100-200 gay men in the Nederland found they were infected with the new HIV variant. It was also found that affected participants, if put on the ART as soon as possible, the virus can be controlled to prevent full-blown Aids. De Oliveria also says that South Africans must not be concerned but alert by always testing for HIV. South Africa has the biggest Anti-Retroviral Treatment (ART) program in the world. He is also urging the government to extent the ART program further. Puren says that the variant does not necessarily mean poor outcomes for individuals, the concern is people who do not respond to treatment will have to go through a three-year evaluation program to determine why the CD4 count is not recovering and the viral load is not surprised. According to Puren, South Africa must not be concerned because of the ART program in place. But his main concern is that most people in South Africa do not know their HIV status. He notes that there are chances of an injectable treatment in the future. With COVID-19 having unfortunately disturbed the whole health system in Africa, it has been suggested that HIV patients be given a long-term treatment so that they avoid going to clinics, this will help decrease the spread of Covid-19. De Oliveria says that the Netherlands variant requires people who test positive to seek ART program as soon as possible. He adds that HIV positive people have less chances of contracting Covid-19 and pneumonia. Puren says that it’s key that the country sustains the number of HIV cases and viral load monitoring to prevent ongoing transmission. Puren stresses that strengthened HIV education and condom program contributed to the declining of HIV cases especially among young women. According to De Oliveria, the problem is not HIV itself but not knowing your status, which might disturb the 2030 goal to eliminate most communicable variants such HIV and TB. --ChannelAfrica--