“One member of the delegation tested positive before arriving in Mozambique and, although the rest of the team repeatedly tested negative, it was decided not to travel to Mozambique as a precautionary measure,” the main spokesperson for the High Representative of the European Union (EU) for Foreign Affairs said. A new date for the visit will be agreed with the Mozambican authorities. Before Mozambique, Borrell ended a visit to Kenya on Saturday, ahead of the 6th EU-Africa summit, scheduled for February 17-18 in Brussels. Insecurity in Cabo Delgado and the European mission that is training Mozambican troops were on the agenda of the high representative in Maputo. Borrell had scheduled meetings with Mozambican President, Filipe Nyusi and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Verónica Macamo, in addition to a visit to the EU military mission in the country. Meanwhile, the leaders of Mozambique and Tanzania met Friday to discuss the Islamist insurgency that Maputo has called in regional forces to help suppress. The fighting in northern Mozambique has occasionally spilled across the border with Tanzania, which has deployed troops in the country under the umbrella of the Southern African Development Community (SADC). “Tanzania has always been on our side, has always offered to help Mozambique within the scope of SAMIM,” Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi said, referring to the SADC mission. “In our talks, we looked at how our cooperating is evolving, because we are two countries and we have a common problem,” he said in remarks broadcast on national radio. Nyusi met with Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan in the northern town of Pemba, the provincial capital of Cabo Delgado, which SADC and Rwandan forces helped Mozambique reclaim from the insurgents in August. Neither leader revealed much of the substance of their talks, but Nyusi signalled that he wanted continued support from the region. “The terrorists cross the common border between Mozambique and Tanzania,” he said. “We are interested in a more dedicated approach to the problem.” “We have seen that the enemy is improving its techniques. We want to study how our forces can deal with the enemy, with terrorism. We will soon improve our combat forces,” he added. Hassan said that she came “to reaffirm our commitment to Mozambique. Tanzania is here to work together with Mozambique in our developmental and our peace and security affairs.” The unrest erupted in 2017, leaving at least 3 500 dead and around 820 000 homeless. The insurgents’ brutal tactics, including beheadings, mass abductions, and the torching of homes rattled the region. --ChannelAfrica/Elisio Chadraque--