The meeting is being held physically in Addis Ababa Ethiopia at the African Union(AU) commission headquarters , but some leaders are attending virtually.
This year the meeting will have a great focus on peace and security in the continent . It is being held as 6 unconstitutional changes of government have happened or have been attempted in parts of Africa in the past 18 months. " There is a concern at the manner in which the ordinary public has responded to military coups," says Naledi Pandor, South Africa's Minister for International Relations and Cooperation, " in some countries it appears they have welcomed this take over by the military which is essentially undemocratic." 
The chairperson of the AU Commission Moussa Faki Mahamat told the AU assembly that there is need to reassess the continent's peace and security architecture,
"On this 20th Anniversary of the African Union, a day of renaissance, remembrance, assessment, meditation and action into the future ,I  call for more creative spirit to give back to the organisation to our union greater possibility of action." 
He is asking leaders to review the powers of the African Union instruments to ensure that they themselves as leaders respect whatever decisions are made by their own organisation,
" Another problem to consider is the sovereignty of states. this a protective shield against all sorts of abuses occurring in  a member country." 
Ethiopia, the host of the Summit has attracted international attention for the protracted conflict in its country's North .
His government  has been in conflict with the Tigray People's Liberation Front, a rebel group, in the country's North since November last year .
The United Nations says the humanitarian situation affecting over 9 million people in the region is deteriorating . While addressing the AU assembly Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed said he is taking steps towards peace,
"  As a gesture of good will we have released high profile suspects with a view of creating a conducive environment.we shall leave no stone unturned in our search for peace in our country." 
This year's summit may have had a heated debate on the granting of Israel an observer status in the continental body in July last year.
AU Commission chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahammat says a two-state solution is necessary for a peaceful co-existence of Israel and Palestine . Palestine has had an observer status at the African Union since 2013. 
Prime minister of the country while addressing the AU  assembly opposed Israel being geven an observer status too. 
Mohammed Shtayyeh said that would be "rewarding " Israel for human rights violations against Palestine. Palestine has the backing of countries like South Africa and Algeria .
" The people of Palestine's cause is an African cause," says Pandor, South Africa's Minister for International Relations and Cooperation, " and we can't appear by our decision to desert the people of Palestine and be a party to the African Union , a country that is imposing real abuse of international human rights practices."  

The African Union summit will also deliberate on the economic recovery of the continent as it continues to tackle the COVID -19 pandemic ,self-sufficiency of Africa in manufacture of vaccine therapeutics and other items needed to curb the pandemic.

As its focus for 2022 African leaders will be expected to lay clear focus on how to build resilience in nutrition through better agro production.

--ChannelAfrica--