Guinea-Bissau's President, Umaro Sissoco Embaló, spoke to the nation on Tuesday night at the presidential palace. Seemingly calm and accompanied by the Prime Minister, Nuno Nabiam, and some members of the government, the head of state took stock of the situation, starting by confirming that the exchange of fire at the Government Palace had left several dead. "There are dead on both sides," he said, adding that "some elements that were involved in this cowardly and barbaric act were already being investigated for signs of drug trafficking. Military sources advanced, meanwhile, that at least six people died following the shooting. Umaro Sissoco Embaló, said on Tuesday that an extraordinary meeting of the Council of Ministers was being held at the government palace. For several hours, no one was allowed to enter or leave the building until the President of the Republic and members of the executive were removed from the scene, allegedly by soldiers of the National Navy, one of the most fearsome forces of the Guinean army. It is not yet known who led the attack on the government palace and for what reasons. Umaro Sissoco Embaló told journalists that "there are no faces yet, because there was a mix, but it was very well organised and concerted. I don't want to advance (information) so as not to complicate the ongoing investigation, but I can assure you that the situation is under control, in a total way." Sissoco Embaló also said that the country is in mourning because "some brave sons" have fallen today "because of the ambition of two or three people, who understand that the country has no right to live in peace." Umaro Sissoco Embaló thanks action of defence and security forces preventing coup. "The defence and security forces have managed to prevent this attack on democracy," Umaro Sissoco Embaló told reporters alongside. He said it was "a well-prepared and organised attack which could also be linked to people involved in drug trafficking," adding that there were people arrested and fatalities, although he did not give precise figures. The attack on the government palace, where the Council of Ministers was taking place, was a five-hour crossfire. Sissoco Embaló said he had already spoken to the United Nations Secretary-General and asked the people of Guinea Bissau to remain calm. "I ask the population to be serene," he says. The coup attempt has already been condemned by the African Union, the Economic Community of West African States, the United Nations Secretary General António Guterres and Portugal. --ChannelAfrica--