Cabo Delgado, the northern-most province of Mozambique, has been suffering violent attacks from militants since 2017 that have forced hundreds of thousands of people to become internally displaced. Insurgents linked to the Islamic State have staged attacks since October 2017 in Cabo Delgado, a coastal province rich in natural gas reserves and host to an estimated $60 billion worth of international investment in gas projects. It is estimated that the violence has left at least 3 100 dead. Over 2020, the conflict escalated and in March 2021, it peaked when a co-ordinated and brutal attack took place in Palma, transforming a once busy city, home to Total's $1 billion gas liquefaction infrastructure, into a ghost town. Júlia Wachave, Executive Director at PROMURA and a gender-activist based in Cabo Delgado, says their operations have been affected by the insurgency. During 2020 and the first half of 2021, there was intense violence including fighting and attacks by non-state armed groups against villages and large towns. This forced masses of people on the coastal strip and northeast of Cabo Delgado to flee their homes and seek refuge in transit and resettlement centres located in the west and south of the province. There are currently hundreds of thousands of people, many of whom have been displaced for a year or even longer. In recent months, the armies of Mozambique and other allied countries in the region have launched offensives to regain control of areas where people have fled from. Some of the retaken areas have been prepared or are being prepared for those who have left to return. Wachave says those in displacement camps continue to suffer. Southern African Development Community nations and Rwanda resolved in June last year to send more than 3 000 troops to help Mozambique respond to an armed uprising in the northern province of Cabo Delgado. The mission’s mandate was extended indefinitely in October. Security Expert Jasmine Opperman says the effective deployment of troops, logistical support and total commitment by government is what is needed. Nhlanhla Mahlangu compiled the following report…  --ChannelAfrica--