“Investing in health is investing in national security,” Adesina told African leaders at the opening of the 35th African Union Assembly in the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa. “Africa cannot afford to outsource the healthcare security of its 1,4 billion citizens to the benevolence of others.” Adesina said the continent needed $484 billion over the next three years to address the socio-economic impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic and support economic recovery. Adesina outlined three strategic priorities for an African healthcare defence system: building quality healthcare infrastructure; developing the continent's pharmaceutical industry; and increasing the capacity of vaccine manufacturing. He added that the AfDB planned to invest $3 billion to support Africa's pharmaceutical and vaccine manufacturing capacity. Speaking about other critical areas for the continent, such as managing debt, Adesina said: “Africa's public debt, currently estimated at $546 billion, represents one-quarter of the continent's gross domestic product and is higher than its combined total annual government revenues of $501 billion”. Adesina said the African Development Fund, the bank group's concessional lending arm, had supported low-income countries with $8,5 billion over the last five years. Calling on African Union (AU) leaders to strongly support the fund's 16th replenishment in 2022, Adesina advised that a funding restructure of the African Development Fund would allow the fund to go to market, leverage its $25 billion in equity, and raise an additional $33 billion in financing for low-income countries. He reminded African leaders that they had asked for re-allocated IMF Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) to be channelled through the AfDB, a prescribed holder of SDRs. Adesina repeated his earlier calls for an African Financial Stability Mechanism to provide liquidity buffers to protect the continent against financial and economic shocks. He said that while other continents have such mechanisms, Africa was the only one that does not. He explained that this led to widespread regional spill-over contagion effects and instability from Covid-19-induced financial shocks. “African economies must be protected,” he stressed. Addressing the summit plenary earlier, AU Commission Chairperson, Moussa Faki Mahamat, said the Covid-19 pandemic had highlighted Africa's unpreparedness for external shocks like new viruses. He said Africa's 2,1% retraction in growth had set it back and threatened the achievement of the AU's Agenda 2063. Various heads of state and government spoke of the socio-economic impact of Covid-19 on their countries, and steps they were taking to tackle the virus and other challenges. --The Namibian--