Whereas the latest policy rate announcement seemingly met analysts’ expectations, it also bore considerable symbolism in light of recent developments. This policy marks the initial Central Bank Rate (CBR) update for 2022 and the first monetary policy announcement issued by Bank of Uganda (BoU) since the death of former Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile that occurred in January. The packaging of this statement might offer clues on the direction of monetary policy actions after Mutebile’s 20-year leadership at the Bank. While previous monetary policy statements focused a lot on changes in inflation, exchange rates, economic growth and interest rates, BoU’s latest policy rate announcement is heavily biased towards economic growth patterns. Faced with a post-lockdown scenario, which has been dominated by full reopening of all sectors after a two-year lockdown and improved consumer spending patterns, the Central Bank was seemingly compelled to maintain a neutral monetary policy stance that favours stable interest rates, low inflation levels and sizeable economic growth patterns during its first policy meeting of 2022, analysts indicated. This policy stance has somehow inspired bullish growth forecasts among BoU decision makers amidst scanty clues on projected movements in other economic performance indicators. “On the domestic front, uncertainty about the evolution of the pandemic continues to cast a shadow on the economic recovery. New Covid-19 variants and a resurgence of lockdown measures would weigh on the outlook. “Another important source of uncertainty for the outlook is the public investment and how this will be financed under the fiscal consolidation path, which is necessary to keep debt sustainable and avoid the risk of debt distress,” the latest monetary policy statement said. Nonetheless, BoU projects economic growth to hit 7% over the medium term, backed by increased social spending and recovery in the tourism sector. Financial analysts are betting on a firm but stronger local currency and stable interest rates in the aftermath of the policy rate decision. --TheEastAfrican--