The agency halted at least five projects earlier this year due to “a material irregularity in the tender process”, including violation of internal control measures meant to prevent collusion. Affected projects include improvements to the EB Cloete interchange linking the N2 and N3 highways near Durban in the KwaZulu-Natal province, expected to cost R4.3 billion ($263.06 million), and the R3.4 billion ($208 million) Mtentu River bridge project near Lundini, Eastern Cape province. The bridge will be one of Africa’s highest and among the world’s longest. While cancellation of the tenders indicates a firmer government stance against corruption in public procurement, it affected construction companies that had invested heavily to submit bids and start work. The tender contracts were readvertised and Sanral says it reached agreement with the DBSA, the State-owned development finance institution, to manage infrastructure procurement and delivery. Sanral Chair, Themba Mhambi, says the DBSA was not involved in the design, cost estimates and documentation of the cancelled tenders. “This should reassure all interested parties and the public about the integrity and independence of the new procurement processes for the projects.” DBSA’s profile and record regarding matters of this nature speaks for itself,” says Mhambi. Sanral Acting Chief Executive Officer, Lehlohonolo Memeza, says DBSA services include evaluation of compliance, technical and financial aspects of relevant tenders, as well as providing independent construction management oversight of the projects. “Once the tenders are awarded and Sanral’s project managers and consultants begin to supervise contractor performance and project delivery, the DBSA’s role will change to project oversight on behalf of the board, with regular reporting to the board,” Memeza says. Transport Minister, Fikile Mbalula, defended Sanral’s decision to halt the projects, saying turning a blind eye to what would have resulted in irregular expenditure and possible litigation, “would have amounted to dereliction of duty on the part of the board.” “In appreciating the strategic nature of the affected projects and their importance in giving momentum to economic reconstruction and recovery. “I have impressed on the board the need to move with speed in addressing the anomalies and award these tenders in a manner that is  transparent and fair,” says Mbalula. --SABC -- 