The Tunisian is the first Arab woman to reach a major final and the first African woman to do so in the Open era. The third-seeded Jabeur will face either 2019 Wimbledon champion Simona Halep or 17th-seeded Elena Rybakina in Saturday’s final. In the deciding set, Jabeur twice broke her 34-year-old German opponent - who was a first-time Grand Slam semifinalist - en route to 5-0 lead. This was Maria’s 35th appearance at a major tournament, and the 103rd-ranked player had never been beyond the third round previously. Elena Rybakina defeated 2019 champion Simona Halep 6-3, 6-3 on Centre Court to set up a Wimbledon final against Ons Jabeur. Both the 17th-seeded Rybakina and third-seeded Jabeur are first-time Grand Slam finalists. Rybakina is the first Kazakhstan player to reach a major final. Jabeur is the first Arab woman to reach a major final and the first African woman to do so in the Open era. The 23-year-old Rybakina is the youngest Wimbledon finalist since 2015 when Garbiñe Muguruza lost to Serena Williams. Halep, the 2018 French Open champion, had reached the semifinals without dropping a set but was broken early in both sets. The 30-year-old Romanian wasn’t able to defend her Wimbledon title last year - after the 2020 edition was canceled - because of a calf injury. --Africanews-- Nadal out of Wimbledon with abdominal injury, Nick Kyrgios into final Rafael Nadal announced Thursday that he was withdrawing from Wimbledon after failing to recover from an abdominal injury, ending his hopes of a calendar Grand Slam.  Semi-final opponent Nick Kyrgios will receive a walkover into Sunday's final, where he will play either top seed and six-time champion Novak Djokovic or Britain's Cameron Norrie.  Nadal, a 22-time Grand Slam champion, struggled with the injury in a gruelling five-set win against 11th-seeded American Taylor Fritz on Wednesday.  Spanish sports daily Marca reported on Thursday that Nadal has a "seven-millimetre" tear to his abdomen but had still intended to play.  But the 36-year-old scheduled a press conference at which he confirmed he was withdrawing.  "I have to pull out of the tournament. As everybody saw yesterday I have been suffering with the pain in the abdominal area," he said.  "I have a tear in the muscle."  Nadal, the second seed, was visibly in pain during his match with Fritz and was forced to take a medical time-out in the second set.  But he returned to the court and twice recovered from a set down to win 3-6, 7-5, 3-6, 7-5, 7/6 (10/4) in four hours and 21 minutes.  --AFP—  