She was speaking at a special high-level dialogue on the theme -The Africa We Want: Reconfirming the Development of Africa as a Priority of the United Nations System. Echoing statements from other high-ranking UN officials, she sounded the alarm that the pandemic had reversed two decades of progress and further shrunk an already limited fiscal space. Mohammed said, "71 million people in developing countries have fallen into poverty in the space of just three months. As a direct consequence of global food and energy, price surges, people living in regions like the Sahel in the Horn of Africa are particularly vulnerable to food insecurity. “There is a real risk that multiple famines will be declared in 2022 and 2023, which could be even worse. The Africa we want is still within reach. To get there, we need a change in our mindsets and to turn the triple crisis into an opportunity. " The high-level dialogue seeks to renew commitment to Africa’s development, including supporting key actions to build back better from the impacts of COVID-19; share country experiences, including lessons learned in the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and the African Union’s Agenda 2063; highlighting successful strategies at the sub-regional and regional levels, including through the expansion of social protection measures and mobilising greater support and partnerships to accelerate development, including on climate change mitigation. The President of the Economic and Social Council, Collen Vixen Kelapile, said, "Africa’s investment needs to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals were estimated at $200 billion per annum prior to the crisis, and the financing gap has now increased by an additional $145 billion due to the pandemic, according to the International Monetary Fund." "As the continent faces this challenge with increased debt, inflationary pressures, and reduced fiscal space, a lasting solution can only come from within the continent. But it also requires international solidarity and support," said Kelapile. --SABCNews--