"The summit will demonstrate the US’ enduring commitment to Africa, and will underscore the importance of US-Africa relations and increased co-operation on shared global priorities," Biden said in a statement. The US-Africa Leaders' Summit, scheduled for December 13-15, was announced simultaneously in virtual remarks by Vice President Kamala Harris to the US-Africa Business Summit in Marrakech hosted by the Corporate Council on Africa and the Kingdom of Morocco and attended by a US delegation. A Senior Administration official, discussing the US-Africa summit plans on condition of anonymity, said about 50 African leaders are expected to join Biden for the December summit. It will come at the end of a year when Biden has engaged other regions of the world with trips to visit US allies in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Biden has yet to visit Africa since becoming President, and the summit will be his most comprehensive look at the complexities of the continent. A backbeat of Biden's diplomatic efforts thus far has been to promote Western democracies as a counterweight to China, but the official said the US-Africa summit was not all about Beijing. "We are not asking our African partners to choose," the official told Reuters. "We believe the US offers a better model, but we are not asking our African partners to choose." The US Agency for International Development announced on Monday that it is providing nearly $1.3 billion in aid to the Horn of Africa nations of Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia to help stave off mass starvation and deaths in the drought-stricken region. Biden said the summit will work towards the new economic engagement, promote democracy and human rights, advance peace and security, and address challenges such as food security and climate change as well as the pandemic. Biden believes that US collaboration with leaders from African governments, civil society, the private sector and the African diaspora will help tackle some of the challenges, the official said. --Reuters--