The outcome will determine who qualifies for next year’s FIFA Women’s World Cup in Australia and New Zealand. The South Africans have been dealt a blow with key players out due to injury and illness. Two players are in isolation because of COVID-19, while star Striker Thembi Kgatlana has returned to South Africa after sustaining a serious leg injury against Botswana. Coach Desiree Ellis will have one of her toughest tasks as head coach. 

She will be missing three of her senior players at a major event ahead of a vital match, which has never happened before during her career. There is also an expectation that more players could test positive ahead of Thursday’s match. The team also suffered an earlier blow when Kgatlana picked up a leg injury and she has been ruled out for at least six months. Banyana Banyana Captain, Janine van Wyk, said they will have to give their best, irrespective of their circumstances. 

“Yes, it’s a big setback for us losing the likes of Thembi and so on but we have to continue to look forward and prepare the best we can with the players that we have available and give our best.” Banyana Banyana player, Nomvula Kgoale, said they know they have to step up. 

“We know what is happening. We have to stick together; we have a great bunch of players who can play different roles so that’s where we have to come in and step up because we can see where this is going. We know what the dream is and we have to keep it going.” Kgoale said “the importance of this match is the fact that it’s the knock-out stages. 

It does not matter what you have done before so everything counts every ball every blade of grass, this is the kind of mentality that we will be having.  

We are just going to give it all on the field, someone said if you have to leave your leg on the field, please do that we will fix it after that.” Banyana Banyana face a Tunisian side that made it to the quarter-finals as one of the two third-best finishers in the group stages with just one win and two defeats. -- SABC--