Chaiban, who doubles as the Global Lead Co-ordinator for Covid-19 Vaccine Delivery Partnership (CoVDP), explained that progress made by the country was commendable as Tanzania delayed in rolling out the said vaccinations. Tanzania was one of the African countries that delayed the vaccine, a stand that was in contrast to the country’s previous record on vaccines such as a 99% coverage of child immunisation which ranked the country among top ten countries in Africa. “Tanzania was late in rolling out Covid-19 vaccinations, but we commend the government for the tremendous efforts made to make these vaccines available to the people through mass campaigns and in health facilities,” acclaimed Chaiban. He noted that Tanzania needed to keep up the momentum and accelerate jab uptake by ensuring vulnerable groups such as the elderly, people with underlying conditions are given priority and deliberate effort is put into ensuring that all are vaccinated. “There is high demand of the vaccines in Tanzania due to the ongoing accelerated nationwide campaigns, as of June 2, this year; the national vaccination rate was 6.3% yet as of July 5, the rate has doubled 12.4%,” he illustrated. Data from the Ministry of Health indicated that as of July 5, , Tanzania has received 21 226 520 doses of which at least 17 413230 have been distributed whereas 13 261 968 doses have been administered. Thanks to frontline health workers who administer the doses as in less than a year, Tanzania has managed to fully vaccinate 27.83% of its targeted population aged 18 and above (30.7 million), and 14.04% of the targeted total population (about 59 million). In April last year, President Samia Suluhu Hassan formed a technical team whose recommendations prompted the government in June same year, to file a request for vaccine from COVAX which distributes vaccines to low-income countries. In July, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa confirmed Tanzania has received the first batch of 1 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccines donated by the United States government. According to the Premier, the goal was to vaccinate at least 60% of the total population estimated at 58 million, though there was neither the reason for the chosen proportion nor the timeline to which the goal is to be achieved. Nonetheless, in late July, Samia received her Johnson & Johnson vaccine against COVID-19 at the State House in Dar es Salaam. --thecitizen.co.tz--