This comes amid a row within the family on the late leader's burial. The government of Angola hired a law firm to represent its interests and those of the widow of the former President, Ana Paula dos Santo. The older children of dos Santos want to have custody of the body and hold a burial in Spain, while the widow and younger children want his body returned to Angola. Dos Santos died last week at a hospital in Barcelona, Spain.  He was the President of Angola for nearly 40 years, until 2017. Local media say efforts by the government and the family of the late leader to reach an agreement on funeral arrangements have failed. --SABC-- The late President Jose Eduardo Dos Santos was not a saint. But again saints chose to side with and support apartheid South Africa. Dos Santos chose to fight for total independence of not only his country Angola but also Namibia and South Africa. May His Soul Rest In Peace. pic.twitter.com/Aae7nLXolX So sorry to hear the passing of Jose Eduardo Dos Santos former President of Angola. Both people of Congo and Angola has always been friends and brothers ; your pain is ours . My condolences to Angolans and to his family. Rest in Peace fighter!! pic.twitter.com/Y8toFf6occ #EduardoDoSantos was a crook who impoverished his people, enriched himself &family, killed a few activists & died in a Spanish health facility because Angola’s health system didn’t survive #DosSantos’ corrupt, tyrannical regime.There, President @CyrilRamaphosa, fixed it for you. https://t.co/LZibZU7v4u With deep sadness, I have learnt of the demise of H.E José Eduardo dos Santos, former President of the Republic of Angola. I wish to convey our deepest and heartfelt condolences to H.E Joao Lourenco, the Santos family and the people of Angola upon this loss. pic.twitter.com/HiHxrNv9Ye The death of Angola's Jose Eduardo dos Santos marks the end of another great African thief. He came to power apparently reluctantly but soon became a kleptomaniac surpassing Mobutu in his appetites. Dour and pleasant. Jolly and charming. A sportsman and a fan of soccer. A thief. So sorry to hear the passing of Jose Eduardo Dos Santos former President of Angola. Both people of Congo and Angola has always been friends and brothers ; your pain is ours . My condolences to Angolans and to his family. Rest in Peace fighter!! pic.twitter.com/Y8toFf6occ #EduardoDoSantos was a crook who impoverished his people, enriched himself &family, killed a few activists & died in a Spanish health facility because Angola’s health system didn’t survive #DosSantos’ corrupt, tyrannical regime.There, President @CyrilRamaphosa, fixed it for you. https://t.co/LZibZU7v4u With deep sadness, I have learnt of the demise of H.E José Eduardo dos Santos, former President of the Republic of Angola. I wish to convey our deepest and heartfelt condolences to H.E Joao Lourenco, the Santos family and the people of Angola upon this loss. pic.twitter.com/HiHxrNv9Ye The death of Angola's Jose Eduardo dos Santos marks the end of another great African thief. He came to power apparently reluctantly but soon became a kleptomaniac surpassing Mobutu in his appetites. Dour and pleasant. Jolly and charming. A sportsman and a fan of soccer. A thief.