Constance Dimingo, 19, wriggles in her wheelchair as she tries to remember the last time, she used a sanitary pad. “I last wore a pad before my mother died last year,” she laments. A congenital physical disability compounded by poverty has made a natural monthly cycle a period of shame. “Now, I have to use anything I can find, cow dung, leaves, newspapers and clothes, to stop the blood from leaking. “I wish my mother was still alive to buy me pads and medication for my menstrual pain,” she concludes. Constance is one of the 72% of girls located in the rural town of Domboshava, 30km north of the capital Harare who do not have access to commercial sanitary wear, according to a study by SNV Netherlands Development Organisation in Zimbabwe. For an equivalent of S$2, sanitary pads are beyond reach for most of the country’s 3 million menstruating girls, who live below the poverty datum line. Constance, her epileptic sister and three other girls rely completely on the assistance of their visually impaired grandmother to manage their menstrual hygiene during that time of the month. This family’s story mirrors that of millions of impoverished women around the Southern African nation who have resorted to desperate methods to manage their periods. According to the Ministry of Women and Youth Affairs, 67% of girls miss school during menstruation due to a lack of access to sanitary products and clean sanitation facilities. Girls with disabilities usually drop out of school altogether, as was the case with Constance. Apart from missing school, health experts say these methods are breeding grounds for salmonella, E. Coli and several bacteria that can result in reproductive health infections. The government of Zimbabwe has made efforts to ease the situation by scrapping taxes on all sanitary products. But period poverty is being exacerbated by inflation standing at over 191.6%, according to the Zimbabwe National Statistics Agency. Families have to choose between purchasing feminine hygiene products and buying food, with most settling on the latter. Living on less than a Dollar a day, pads remain a frill for Constance and her sisters who continue to bear the brunt of Zimbabwe’s economic crisis. --AfricaNews--