The game against Cameroon, who had captured Africa's imagination including that of pariah state South Africa with their run to the 1990 World Cup quarter-finals, was the first of three and ushered in an exciting time full of hope and expectation. Four days before it took place, on July 3, 1992, South Africa's membership of world governing body FIFA which had been suspended in 1964 prior to expulsion 10 years later had been restored. This came after the demolishing of apartheid had led to the creation of a new multi-racial South African Football Association (Safa) a year earlier. The first meeting was in the rain at Durban's King's Park on July 7, with a strike by the Media Workers Association of South Africa meaning there was no television coverage. Today, some 30 years on, there are, sadly, minimal visuals from that game. Nonetheless, history records that giant striker Phil Masinga, later to play in England for Leeds United and in Italy's Serie A for Bari, was the first South African man to touch the ball in an international.  The game was no classic; rather, an edgy affair with Cameroon unsure what to expect and South Africa looking a little aimless in their approach, as if international football was far removed from the domestic game. But despite the horrid weather, it was a celebration with some 40 000 braving the elements and the result, perhaps to script, going in South Africa's favour after a late penalty. "When the ball hit the back of the net, the stadium went wild and I celebrated more out of relief than anything else‚" Doctor Khumalo, who tucked away the penalty, told BBC Sport Africa. South Africa will be disappointed with their progress over the past 30 years after showing such initial promise upon their return to international football. Bafana Bafana won their first Africa Cup of Nations, were runners-up two years after that before finishing third in 2000 - but have never attained those heights since. Embarrassingly they missed out in 2012 when they got the permutations for their last qualifier wrong, so playing for a draw which they thought would be enough after failing to understand the rules on head-to-head clashes as opposed to goal difference in deciding the group places. At World Cup level, qualification in 1998 and 2002 suggested they would be among Africa's regulars but they have only been to the 2010 finals since, because they were the hosts. Yet the party was swiftly spoiled as South Africa became the first and only host nation to ever be eliminated at the first stage. Safa has arranged little celebration to mark this 30-return to international football but after failing to even qualify for this year's Nations Cup in Cameroon, is there much to celebrate? --BBC--