The airlines presently operating in Nigeria are nine: Air Peace airline, Arik Air; Azman Air, Dana Air, Green Africa, Ibom Air, Max Air, Overland and United Nigeria Airlines. The management of Aero Contractors Company of Nigeria Limited said that the airline was shutting down its operations due to the impact of the challenging operating environment on their daily operations. In a press statement made available to leadership, the airline said it would temporarily suspend its scheduled passenger service operations with effect from Wednesday, July 20, 2022. The statement, however, said the suspension of operations does not in any way affect the maintenance activities of the Approved Maintenance Organisation (AMO), otherwise known as AeroMRO, the Approved Training Organisation (ATO), also known as Aero Training School, and the Helicopter and Charter Services operations. "This decision was carefully considered and taken due to the fact that most of our aircraft are currently undergoing maintenance, resulting in our inability to offer seamless and efficient services to our esteemed customers. We are working to bring these aircraft back into service in the next few weeks, so we can continue to offer our passengers the safe, efficient, and reliable services that Aero Contractors is known for, which is the hallmark of Aero Contractors Company of Nigeria Ltd," it said. The airlines' management, however, identified the high cost of maintenance, the hike in aviation fuel, and forex scarcity among others as challenges that necessitated the temporary shutdown of their service. It noted that the past few months had been very challenging for the aviation industry and the airline operators in particular, with the high cost of maintenance, skyrocketing fuel prices, inflation, and forex scarcity resulting in high foreign exchange rates. The airline's management, however, assured its customers that it was working assiduously to return to service as quickly as possible and craved the understanding of its customers. "As members of Spring Alliance (a commercial alliance with member airlines providing mutual support in the area of operations), we are liaising with our partner airlines to minimise the impact on our esteemed customers. Our customer service team will be working to help our esteemed customers reach their destinations. "We sincerely apologise for any inconvenience caused to our esteemed customers and promise to return to service as soon as possible," it said. 

--AllAfrica--