Five African nations, Senegal, Ghana, Morocco, Cameroon and Tunisia will be carrying Africa’s hopes going into the quadrennial tournament. However, it is the outcome of performances by those African teams that Africans will be most concerned about. That to this day, no African team has ever managed to reach the last four stages of the tournament, is a well-documented fact and it is for this reason that every four years fingers are crossed to see which African nation might just break that record and at least reach the semifinals. And this time around the script is still the same. Recent history does very little to paint a picture of hope for Africa. 20 years ago, in Korea and Japan, all African nations returned to the continent with tails between their legs after they were all eliminated in the first round of the tournament. In 2006, Ghana seemed to have it better when they made the Last 16 but fell 3-0 to Brazil. It was Ghana again four years later, in South Africa, who got out of the group stages while four Africa teams were once again dumped out of the preliminary stages of the tournament. The Black Stars went on to reach the quarterfinals, but failed to go past that hurdle like no African team ever has in the history of the tournament. Nigeria and Algeria broke out of the group stages in Brazil in 2014, but as usual were knocked out in the Last 16 by France and Germany, respectively. 2018 was a repeat of the Korea and Japan story with all African teams eliminated in the preliminary stages of the tournament and returned to the continent with tails between their legs. It is this history that paints a bleak picture for Africa going to Qatar. The recent Africa Cup of Nations was supposed to provide a good measure of Africa’s readiness for Qatar but on closer look, it only adds to the confusion regarding these teams’ preparedness for the tournament. Egypt, who reached the finals of the tournament and narrowly lost to Senegal on penalties and would thus be regarded as the second-best team in Africa, have failed to qualify for Qatar. Ghana, on the other hand, one of the most deplorable sides in Cameroon having been knocked in the group stages and losing to the likes of Comoros, will be one of the teams entrusted with African hopes on the world’s biggest stages against the best on the planet. This does not help give an indication of Africa’s readiness. Hosts Cameroon were far from convincing struggling against some of the minnows of the tournament like Cape Verde, Comoros, and Gambia and eventually being knocked the first time they faced a reputable opponent in Egypt who will not be traveling to Qatar. Tunisia were even worse, losing two of their three group stage matches and only qualifying for the Last 16 as one of the best thirds. But the terrible showing would not count against one of the most fancied, high-flying side, Nigeria, in the Last 16 bring the Super Eagles down to walk in a shocking result indicating the unpredictability of African teams. Despite Nigeria’s great showing in the group stages, winning three out of three and collecting all nine points on offer, they could not go past a poor Tunisian side and failed to qualify for the World Cup. Even Morocco who lost to Egypt in the quarterfinals never sent out a strong message that they were delivering one of Africa’s hopes of at least reaching the semifinals. Eventual winners and perhaps Africa’s best bet, Senegal, started the tournament scrappily and got better with as it progressed, eventually beating The Pharaohs of Egypt on penalties in the final however, far from world-beaters status. --SABC--