Argentina, who had been top ahead of the weekend, finished a lowly ninth. One tournament of the 2022 World Series remains, with South Africa in first position, followed by Australia, who won the tournament at Twickenham. For Head Coach Neil Powell, however, this was another frustrating weekend that saw his side win five of the six matches, but fall to Australia in the quarter-finals. “There is frustration, especially after day one where we played well,” said Powell. “To put away a very competitive Argentina side in the first game, then outplay Ireland in the second game and beat a charged-up Kenya was rewarding. “We lost concentration against Australia at crucial times and that cost us, basically. The players need to understand the big moments in a game and how to play those correctly. If you don't, like we did today, you will not be successful. “We made two such mistakes against Australia and it cost us 14 points, and ultimately the game. We need to tell the players where they made mistakes, if not, they will not learn from those. “We had a tough tour and it started off badly with Selvyn Davids ruled on the morning of our departure to France, but apart from that, we also need to look at ourselves and why we are making mistakes when under pressure.” Powell said the defeat against Australia was unfortunate, but also showed the comeback effort from the team: “We won five and lost one, as did Australia, who won the tournament. The margin at this level is so small. We made two mistakes in six matches and finished fifth.” The 13 points gained from the London tournament moved the Blitzboks back into first place of the 2022 World Series log with one tournament remaining, the USA Sevens in Los Angeles on August 27-28. They started the London event two points behind Argentina, but with the South Americans not getting out of their pool for the Cup competition, the South Africans reclaimed the lead they held since the opening tournaments in Dubai in December. Powell said they have three different tournaments left in the season, the Commonwealth Games, the LA tournament and the Rugby World Cup Sevens in Cape Town and need to box clever. --News24--  