This would significantly cut costs, especially for expecting women who live far from health centres. IMAL President, Keneuoe Fobo, said that expectant mothers should be allowed to choose where they want to deliver, provided they are assisted by qualified and licensed midwives. The government encourages pregnant women to deliver at health facilities where they are attended to by medical experts. This reduces the risk of complications and infections during labour and delivery. However, due to lack of money to register for pre-natal and post-natal services, some women resort to seeking the services of traditional village midwives. Unfortunately, some women have lost their lives during such deliveries due to lack of proper training, facilities, and hygienic environments. Fobo said that midwives could play a crucial role in home deliveries if they are guided by proper policies, fully trained, qualified and equipped. She said this as IMAL marked the International Day of the Midwife 2022 on May 5. This year's theme is, 'Investing in midwives key to achieving universal health coverage'. The day seeks to honour the work of midwives and promote awareness of the vital care that they provide to mothers and their newborns. According to the United Nations (UN), midwives have been an integral part of African medicine for centuries. They are the front-line caregivers and backbone of maternal and child health care on the continent, where they support women through pregnancy and childbirth, providing antenatal, intrapartum and post-natal care. Midwives also provide family planning services, as well as conduct breast and cervical cancer screenings. In emergencies, they can also perform basic emergency obstetric care, says the UN. Fobo said it is imperative that the government comes up with policies to create an enabling environment for midwives. "For us to be able to do our work more effectively, the Ministry of Health should facilitate a conducive environment where trained, qualified and licensed midwives can carry out their duties," she said. She appealed to the ministry to allow expectant mothers who might wish to deliver at home to be able to do so with the assistance of qualified and licensed midwives. This could work wonders, provided such midwives operate under clear policies. --Lesotho Times--- 