Israel’s Ambassador to Morocco David Govrin has worked hard on that front in recent weeks. Relations between Rabat and Jerusalem “very quickly returned to normal” after Operation Guardian of the Walls last year. Govrin expects the same after recent rioting by Palestinians at al-Aqsa Mosque on the Temple Mount and the killing of Palestinian journalist Shireen Abu Akleh the day before his interview with The Jerusalem Post on Thursday, however, they still “make the development of ties more difficult.” “The public in Morocco gets most of its information in French and Arabic, and a lot of the reports, especially in Arabic, are lies that incite and provoke,” Govrin lamented. “A large segment of the media reports were fake news, which makes it hard to explain the situation.” The ambassador pointed to “conspiracy theories,” such as that Israel plans to change the status quo on the Temple Mount. “We totally denied this and emphasized that the prime minister and foreign minister have no intention to change it, because we are very sensitive to the circumstances and don’t want an escalation,” he said. “We emphasized that a group of terrorist extremists took the law in their hands to desecrate 9al-Aqsa) with violent acts and tried to prevent most of the Muslims arriving from fulfilling their right to pray on the Temple Mount. In the end, they should remember that about 100 000 Muslim worshipers ascended the Mount and prayed.” Govrin is in constant contact with the Moroccan authorities and journalists, in addition to members of the public through social media. He said the most important thing to do is to relay trustworthy information and build trust. One way he does this is through his active Twitter account. In addition, the Israeli mission in Morocco is working on building a new website, to be launched in the coming weeks. “The Moroccan public deeply identifies with the Palestinians. “It’s a sensitive matter, and King Mohammed VI is the head of the Jerusalem Committee of the Organization of Islamic Co-operation. That is expressed in the official stance of Morocco that wants an independent Palestinian state on 1967 borders, including east Jerusalem, alongside the State of Israel,” Govrin explained. “At the same time, the Palestinians do not overshadow Israel-Morocco relations, but rather the subject “comes up occasionally, mostly in times of crisis. “The Palestinian matter is not at the center of the public agenda in Morocco,” Govrin said. “In internal policy, the central matters are health, education and economic development, and in foreign policy, the most important matter is the Sahara.” A Moroccan political activist and human rights advocate, who spoke on condition of anonymity due to tensions following the killing of Abu Akleh, said recent clashes between Israel and the Palestinians “have more of an influence on a media level, because a lot of the media in Morocco is pro-Palestinian and Moroccans have a lot of sympathy for the Palestinian cause.” “The official government level is separate,” she said. “The Abraham Accords are here, they are a reality, government collaboration is continuing and official diplomatic ties are still ongoing.” Renewed ties between her country and Israel “improved really fast, based on putting aside geopolitical differences and past conflicts and focusing on what Israel and Morocco can do,” she said. Israel and Morocco re-established diplomatic relations in December 2020. The countries had secret diplomatic relations for decades, and previously exchanged liaison offices in 1995, following the Oslo Accords. Rabat cut ties with Jerusalem in 2000, amid the Second Intifada. Deep cultural and familial ties between Morocco and the approximately million Israelis with roots in the North African state continued throughout, and even before the renewed normalization, tens of thousands of Israelis visited Morocco in recent decades. --jpost.com--