The government’s Department of Communications and Digital Technologies confirmed the new date in a tweet last night, stating: “The final analogue switch-off date is shifted to June 30, 2022. Analogue television transmitters will be switched off progressively in the remaining provinces. You do not want to be left behind!” For those in the lurch of what the terrestrial signal shutdown will mean, any South Africans using outdoor element antennas or portable aerials that sit atop a television set will cease to receive a local signal come the shut-off deadline. While the signal switch-off won’t affect South Africans using digital satellite television services such as DStv, Openview HD, and StarSat television, those who live in areas unserviced by satellite or internet connections won’t have access to any television services once SA switches off its terrestrial signal. Meanwhile, the lack of access to digital television, especially among those living in unserviced areas, has been one of the government’s pain points, causing delays in the transition to digital-only television. Delays in recent years have marred the transition away from analogue. Amid this, the government has been laying out the intention to provide set-top boxes, a television accessory to convert the analogue signal to digital for those who primarily use terrestrial television signals. IOL recently reported that free set-top boxes would be available for those who earn R3 200 or less ahead digital migration deadline and can be applied for through the South African Post Office. “The government will subsidise households that depend on social grants and those with a monthly income of less than R3 200($204). They must also have a functioning television set and a television license. Such households must register at their nearest Post Office to qualify for the STB subsidy,” Government said regarding those in need of a set-top box. Meanwhile, households earning more than R3 200($204) per month are expected to purchase decoders or STBs. The announcement comes at the tail-end of the launch of one of the most extensive international streaming services - Disney+. Disney+ bolsters South Africans’ choice of streaming services, including Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, and locally-grown Showmax, indicating that locals are already becoming accustomed to streaming content instead of traditional signals.  --IOL Tech-- Channel Africa wishes you a happy Africa Day. #WeAllAfrica #MyAfrica