This year the focus of The Big Africa Debate will be on economic development, specifically on infrastructure and the bankability of Africa anchored around politics and social issues. The core topic is Private, Public, Partnerships in Africa - how to create the foundation for the bankability of transboundary projects.  The dialogue will deliberate on the technical modalities involved in scaling of risk mitigation for private investment in Africa’s Infrastructure, including African institutional investment. Secondly, the sessions will discuss the operational modalities of early stage project preparation to deal with the complexity in bringing regional projects to bankability. In terms of the specifics, the discussion will begin with a session on mobilising institutional investment for infrastructure development in Africa. The session will build on initial research on the financial potential of Pension and Sovereign Wealth Funds to invest into Africa’s Infrastructure.  The webinar will close with a brainstorming on the required steps to scale risk mitigation for infrastructure projects. The session will touch on the challenge of project preparation which starts with a discussion on regional infrastructure for development and job creation, the panel will include a discussion on how to enhance the bankability of Africa. Africa’s economic growth during the last decade has remained relatively robust despite some countries facing strong headwinds – from the weakening of global commodity prices to capital flows and the COVID-19 pandemic. This trend is likely to continue, according to the economic forecast, particularly for sub-Saharan Africa. However, growth is expected at a level below the region’s potential which is compounded by continuing global challenges. During the next decade, African governments should embark on a sprint to bridge infrastructure gaps that could help position their countries toward more sustained growth. What are the right projects? Where will the funding come from? Who are the right partners to help deliver the projects? These are looming issues that are not mutually exclusive. Infrastructure projects take time to deliver. For this reason, they must be bankable, have the right policies, projects, and partners and be a priority for governments, as infrastructure projects can be the bottleneck to broader sustainable development. The Big Africa Debate will be having exclusive conversations directly with those who are at the forefront of the continent’s development. 