But despite its historic legacy, in the minds of many outsiders the West African nation is still more commonly associated with civil war and convicted war criminal Charles Taylor. But at the end of the second civil war in 2003, as Liberia was on the cusp of democratically electing the continent's first female head of state, a different narrative was emerging in the fishing village of Robertsport; one that would ultimately change the culture of this tiny seaside community on the border of Sierra Leone. "After the war in 2003, some Americans came to Robertsport, where they started surfing our waves," recalls local surfer Philip Banini. "(They) came across a Black guy, Alfred Lomax, who was the first Liberian surfer, and they taught him the sport. And that was how he too started sharing it with the locals around here." Lomax, now the country's most recognized and decorated surfer, taught Banini, who in turn has taught countless others, growing the community from one into many. Today, inside Banini's guesthouse hangs a sign that reads "When nothing is going right, surf a left" a reference to the left break for which Robertsport is famous. The village is now one of Liberia's three main surfing destinations, the others being the capital Monrovia and Harper on the border with Ivory Coast. Between the palm trees and long stretches of sandy beach which hug the Atlantic Ocean, every day the water is dotted with surfers. To borrow a surfing expression, "the stoke is real." Surfing has a long history in Africa. The earliest account, from Ghana in the 1640s, even predates the earliest record from surfing's spiritual home of Hawaii. The parallel development and history of African surfing is less well known, and the sport remains less established than other parts of the world. But a renaissance is underway. Today, Robertsport is a world apart from when Canadians Kent Bubbs and Landis Wyatt first set foot on its beach. Since relocating to Liberia 15 years ago, Bubbs has witnessed how the community of roughly 4 000 people has grown to include over 60 local surfers. "There are more and more surfers every year," Bubbs tells CNN. "The kids who used to surf originally are now having kids, and those kids are surfing it is becoming generational. We often see multiple family members out surfing together." --CNN--