But then his engine failed and the race fell into rival Max Verstappen's lap. Well, it was a bit harder than that for Verstappen, who endured a spin into the gravel and 20 laps stuck behind George Russell's Mercedes before he and his Red Bull team managed to work their way back to the front. But the upshot was that instead of falling back further adrift of Leclerc, Verstappen now has a six-point lead at the top of the standings, which he tops for the first time this season. Not only that, but the statistics look grim for Leclerc and Ferrari. Verstappen has retired twice this year, but has won every race he has finished. This was his third victory in a row. And whereas before reliability had been the big question mark over Red Bull  and still is to some extent now Ferrari face their own questions. Meanwhile, there is a complicating factor in what had until Barcelona been a private fight between the two men. Mercedes look like they are back or at the very least heading very quickly in that direction. After a difficult start to the season with a recalcitrant car, suddenly both Russell and Lewis Hamilton look like they could start making life difficult for Verstappen and Leclerc. Leclerc's retirement, with an unspecified engine problem, came shortly before half-distance in a race that appeared long before to have surrendered to him. He and the Ferrari were in blistering form all weekend. The team took their first major upgrade of the season to Spain, and it worked exactly as expected. Leclerc spun on his first lap in final qualifying but, cool as a cucumber, nailed it with his second and took his fourth pole of the season. After holding off Verstappen on the run to the first corner, he was two seconds in front of the Red Bull when the world champion made a most uncharacteristic mistake and spun at Turn Four - two laps after Leclerc's team-mate Carlos Sainz had done the same. That looked like game over, and it would have been. While Verstappen struggled with a faulty DRS overtaking aid to pass Russell's Mercedes, Leclerc did a very impressive 21-lap stint on the soft tyres before his pit stop - eight further than Russell and Verstappen - and was building his lead again when he cried into the radio: "Oh, no," letting the team know the engine had gone. It was brutal for Leclerc. And while Verstappen has retired twice this season, the difference is that his failures came in races in which he was already well beaten by Leclerc. This cost the Ferrari driver a victory. From looking like equalling the win score at three-three, it is now four-two to Verstappen. --BBC--