The FIFA Disciplinary Committee fined the Royal Moroccan Football Federation (FRMF) 30 000 Swiss francs ($31 000) for order and security “misconduct” during the second leg of the Morocco vs DRC World Cup playoffs. In justifying the sanction, the disciplinary committee explained that Morocco was found in breach of FIFA's disciplinary code due to incidents of “lighting of fireworks, throwing of objects, and blocked stairways” by the Moroccan fans. The two-legged playoffs witnessed incidents deemed “inappropriate” by world football’s governing body. DRC will also have to pay a fine of $123 000 after a pitch invasion following their 1-1 draw at Kinshasa’s Martyrs of Pentecost Stadium in their first leg against Morocco’s Atlas Lions. The FIFA disciplinary committee cited the organizers' “failure to ensure that law and order are maintained in the stadium and that the match is organized properly.” The committee also noted that Congo will have to play one game behind closed doors. In addition, DRC was fined $5 000 for the "throwing (of) objects" during the second leg of the playoffs, in which they lost 4-1 in Morocco. Alongside Morocco and DRC, four other African teams were also sanctioned following the chaotic scenes witnessed during their World Cup playoffs. Senegal was the most severely hit by the punishments. The West African country will have to pay a fine of $180 000 and play one match behind closed doors for local fans’ inappropriate behaviour during the Senegal team’s second leg game against Egypt. FIFA justified its decision by mentioning Senegalese fans’ “field invasion, throwing of objects, lighting of fireworks, use of laser pointers and use of objects to transmit a message that is not appropriate for a sports events  offensive banner.” Meanwhile, Egypt were also charged $6 000 after the referee booked six players on the Pharaohs' squad during the game against Senegal. Algeria also received a fine of $3 000 for “throwing of objects and lighting of fireworks” during their second leg game against Cameroon. Nigeria will also have to pay $154 000 and play one game behind closed doors after their fans invaded the pitch following their second leg loss against Ghana. --MoroccoWorldNews.com--