“We are concerned that the protracted political impasse is having an increasingly negative impact on security,” said Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs, Rosemary DiCarlo. “A Co-ordinated and constructive effort is required to prevent further polarization and end the political stalemate.” Last week, UN Special Advisor Stephanie Williams convened a second round of consultations of the Joint Committee of the House of Representatives and High State Council, in the Egyptian capital, Cairo, reviewing a reformed constitution for a democratic way forward for the country, the 2017 Constitutional Draft. The delegations reached agreement in several areas, including basic rights and freedoms; the structure and powers of a two-tier new parliament; and the prerogatives of the President and Prime Minister. Under UN auspices, members will reconvene on June 11 for a final round to reach consensus on finalizing constitutional arrangements to hold key national elections delayed from last December, as soon as possible. The Special Adviser also met Presidency Council members, who expressed their intention to continue working on a national reconciliation process with UN and African Union support. While the 2020 ceasefire continues to hold,  DiCarlo stated that the security situation “remains fragile”. She drew attention to clashes in the capital on May 17, following the recent political crisis which began in March, which saw the eastern parliament select a new government. The incumbent UN and internationally-backed Prime Minister however, refused to stand aside. The parliamentary choice for the top job, Fathi Bashagha, entered Tripoli backed by armed groups, leading to skirmishes with supporters of incumbent Abdulhamid al-Dbeibah. One militant died, a policeman was injured and several buildings were damaged. Following mediation by local actors and outreach by military representatives, from the 5+5 Libyan Joint Military Commission (JMC), Bashagha was escorted out of Tripoli. “While fighting has ceased, the situation remains tense. “Tripoli-based armed groups supporting either Dbeibah or Bashagha remain in a state of high alert,” the political chief said. -- News.UN--