According to a statement announcing her visit, she plans to visit eight African Commonwealth member states from May 8 to 14, to discuss the future of the Commonwealth. She will meet with various government officials from Lesotho, Botswana, South Africa, Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Nigeria and Ghana to discuss her vision for the Commonwealth and the critical importance of the Africa-Caribbean cohort in the family of nations. As noted, the Minister is inspired by the unique relationship that characterizes the Commonwealth and believes in the Commonwealth Charter as a framework to promote co-operation among member states, fostering friendship, fraternal dialogue and mutual respect. Her transformative vision for the Commonwealth includes a renewed commitment to food security, delivering on the Sustainable Development Goals, advocacy for small states, gender and youth empowerment, good governance, and technical co-operation. Minster Johnson Smith is committed to advancing collaboration, building consensus and promoting peace and prosperity within the Commonwealth. Candidature for Secretary-General of the Commonwealth. "African nations play a central role in determining the future of our Commonwealth and ensuring its shared values extend well into the future," Minister Johnson Smith is quoted in the statement. "I look forward to meeting with members of our Commonwealth family in Africa, to discussing the shared aspirations we have for development and for building a Commonwealth that will deliver on these aspirations for its member states and our people." The Jamaican Minister announced her candidature for Secretary-General of the Commonwealth of Nations in April. Dominican-born Patricia Scotland QC, is the current Secretary-General of Commonwealth, a post she held since April 1, 2016. This June, Commonwealth Member States will select their next Secretary-General when they convene in Rwanda at the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) that will be held from June 20 to 25. According to the statement announcing her tour of Africa, Jamaica's first female Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade, Minister Johnson Smith serves as leader of government business in Jamaica's Senate. She is the Chair of the Cabinet's International Relations Sub-Committee, a member of the Economic Growth and Job Creation Sub-Committee and is also a member of Jamaica's National Security Council. As noted, her leadership has successfully increased Jamaica's international influence and visibility through roles that include chairing the Caribbean Forum of African Caribbean and Pacific States CARIFORUM group and opening of discussions with the UK regarding post-Brexittrade arrangements. She served as President of the ACP Council of Ministers, presiding over the process that secured the negotiating mandate of the ACP for a post-Cotonou Agreement with the European Union. In her first term as Foreign Minister, Johnson Smith was appointed as President of Council of the International Seabed Authority. She also chaired the 15-member Caribbean Community and Common Market Council of Foreign Ministers and the CARICOM Council for Trade and Economic Development, and was the first Jamaican Foreign Minister to be invited to G7 and G20 meetings. --AllAfrica--