Limited overs captain, Temba Bavuma, is champing at the bit, ahead of their first match of the shortest version of the game since last year’s ICC T20 World Cup. South Africa last played against India during the festive season in December and January. The Proteas were dominant, bouncing back from a match down to win the Test series 2-1 and following it up with a clean sweep in the three match ODI series. However, their last T20 match was in the ICC’s T20 World Cup last November. “First prize is obviously to win the series but it’s also to understand that it’s our first time together as a team since the World Cup. We have to give ourselves maybe that extra game or so. “See how we play the game, see what are the things we do well, that is a process. We are obviously working toward the World Cup this year in Australia in October. It’s putting those pieces together to make sure we are as prepared as possible,” says Bavuma. Bavuma will resume his partnership with coach Mark Boucher. Cricket South Africa has recently withdrawn the charges of racism levelled against Boucher and Bavuma is keen to turn the page on that chapter. “It would definitely be a relief for the guys to know that we can be in a space where we can focus on the cricketing side of things. We welcome that it’s been a tough time for the coach and for members of the team in trying to deal with everything. It’s still cricket and making winning the focus. I am glad that it is seemly resolved issue,” Bavuma adds. IPL based players to bring experience and form to the team Eight members of the squad are already in India with their Indian Premier League franchises and the rest of the squad will leave next Wednesday. “We have a couple of guys who are now in the play-offs in the Indian Premier League. “David Miller, Quinton de Kock, that experience that confidence that they are going to gain will definitely be bringing that to the team. Obviously it is always nice to have guys in form but I think for us as a team it’s weird we haven’t played a game since the World Cup but the opportunity to be together is an exciting one and I am looking forward to it,” the skipper concludes. The first match in the series is in Delhi on June 9. --SABC--